ready young Jamie here we go
how are you sir I'm great thanks nice to
meet you nice to meet you
um we were talking before about Adam
Curry who's just here who has these
crazy ear enhancements that are these
software base so he can tweak it and
change levels and stuff like that and
you were saying that you also have
hearing but you got it from rock and
roll yeah I mean honestly I've never
been tested I just know that when I'm
out eating with my family or friends
that everybody can hear everything and I
can't hear anything
so but no I love rock music for mm six
seven eight nine years and uh yeah it it
it does what they say it does know what
those people tell you to do but look I
like the technology like I have older
relatives who have a hearing aid or
whatever they called now hearing
enhancement devices that are like light
ears better than they used to be oh yeah
yeah so I figure if I can hold that a
couple more years mine are gonna like be
so good they'll take out the garbage the
ones that Adam has so I'm pretty fucking
amazing he said it just sounds
incredible and he can actually tune into
people at a 50 feet away 50 feet away I
having a conversation he can hear them
and can you tune out people you don't
like that's a good question I bet there
is a way Betty we has various settings
but I bet there's like a tone the world
out I don't need to tone the world
they're just some people times you know
yeah have you used any of those air pods
that have the noise canceling technology
oh not air pods but I wear bose
noise-canceling almost every day I wear
him a lot oh you know when I started as
a journalist in newsrooms this was
whatever early late 80s early 90s I
didn't like a newsroom is an open place
and a lot of people back then were on
the phone doing your reporting it was
pre-internet reporting right and I
didn't you're a writer you're writing
and you're editing and I I didn't
understand how people could think with
all this didn't going on I couldn't do
it so I started wearing just the good
foam earplugs are made by flints I think
is the brand that I use they're kind of
non tapered and they're very thick and
if you compress them and put them in
it'll block out like you know 70 80 % so
I've been shutting out the world for
like
twenty-five years now so when the the
noise cancers got good
i-i've embraced them yeah yeah some
people need it though right they need
that sound like at the coffee shop like
they love to go to coffee shops and all
the milling around actually helps their
creativity you know we're doing an
episode right now for economics radio on
noise basically as you know kind of we
got into it thinking about noise
pollution right cuz noise is a funny
thing
it's what economists call an externality
and negative externality meaning you can
produce it and it affects me but you I
don't I can't charge you for it
right it's like pollution if you have a
big factory your pollution goes up it
blows over to someone else that's an
externality on them so noise is that but
what's really interesting is that
there's a huge variance in how different
people receive and perceive noise as you
just said so some people really need it
and want it for some it's a burden and
then there's all these rather weird
intricacies of noise like have you heard
of Musa phone eeeh you know that is I
have heard of it but I remember what it
means it is an intensely negative
reaction when you hear other people
chewing or their mouths making any sound
and it can be debilitating for people
who have it but then there's something
called I'm gonna get it wrong amsr ASMR
you know that yeah there's all these
videos online right right right yeah
that's so noises that stand for them
yeah I can I'd have to look it up
automated sense or someone would have to
look it up at someone yeah we do if
someone screams in your ear unexpectedly
and hurts your ear that is a form of
assault right you don't think of it that
way but if some if like if you saw a
girl she was stand there and a guy ran
up tour and just Wow in her ear just
like ah
and she's like falls down cuz your ear
hurts I agree you can do that with sound
what about when airports play CNN at
blast volume yeah that's I mean is that
a form of assault borderline oh god
sweet deal to CNN have with airports I
think it kind of made everybody hate CNN
blast and when you don't want to hear it
that's right right it shows that it's a
little bit annoying but it's also it's
like you don't want to be looking at all
the world's problems when you're about
get on the most stressful thing that a
person does you are you ever flying you
you have to self-medicate pretty heavily
before flying then no no I don't have to
we enjoy it I enjoy it more yeah well
this is what I the way I think of it on
a plane one of two things gets either
where get some work done or get some
entertainment I'll watch a movie on the
laptop or I'll get some writing in write
or I can get really really high and then
get on that and just freak the fuck out
and and make it but go through a
rollercoaster ride of thoughts and a lot
of times I'm wind up writing to you know
if I wait when you get high you have a
worse experience on the plane no no it's
not worse it's just scary it's not
warmest and scary is not worse no
because there's benefits to it benefits
in terms of like creativity and then
insight and like Justin I I have a whole
bit about it but it is based on the
truth like I often times take a heavy
dose of edibles and then get on a plane
in order to intentionally put yourself
in a state that can be somewhat negative
but also creativity
I also I see I don't use that word
negative an interesting is negative even
when I'm freaking out like if I'm
sitting in the chair and I'm like whoa
and you know I'm looking out the window
we're flying and I'm realizing we're
30,000 feet in the air and I'm really
fucking how is this so I'm not a like a
roller coaster person but is this a
similar kind of like you put your you
intentionally put yourself in a scenario
where you're gonna heighten some senses
is that the ideal because I think a
roller coaster is just fun right it's
just goofs this is an essential thing
you're doing you're travelling to a
place where you're going to and as
you're doing you're incredibly
vulnerable great you're Ambala is in a
chair while you're going 500 miles an
hour in the sky you're like whoa already
you're going a little weirded out if you
look out the window but now when you're
really really really high it puts you in
this very strange state and you start
thinking about your life and you start
thinking about how you talk to people
you start thinking about things that
you've learned and documentaries that
you find fascinating you start dwelling
on weird things and then you know
oftentimes I'll either watch something
or I'll start writing so I get something
very productive out of what would be
dead time it makes me it
my whatever it is that creates
creativity for me whatever the source of
it for me for some reason it gets
enhanced oftentimes by being on a plane
on edibles how predictable though is the
experience unpredictable right so is
that not a little a little bit that's
not nobody gets hurt that's the thing
yeah it's not like a real fear and in
the back of your mind you know this is
just a yeah a physiological chemical
response and I'm gonna exactly exactly
and I mean that's what paranoia really
is marijuana based paranoia if I had to
guess it's a hyper awareness that you're
not not comfortable with and so in
taking in all these things it's like if
you just can't settle in you're
recognizing every threat that's around
you all the time the fact that a rocket
come out of the sky the fact that the
the tsunami could hit at any moment the
earth could shake what if a super
volcano blows up all those things that
you know to be real all of a sudden get
dragged do you put yourself back into
caveman mode like every rustle of grass
is the lion who's coming to you alright
let me ask you a question sorry I
realize I'm not supposed to be I'm gonna
here's a question let's say for people
who don't use drugs Yeah right but they
hear you say this and like they say wow
that is I recognize the value of putting
yourself in a place emotionally
cognitively kind of unleashing yourself
or maybe putting yourself in a new place
where you're gonna have thoughts big
thoughts maybe scary thoughts is there a
way to do that that you know of the
without drugs yeah we were just talking
about that with Adam in fact we were
talking about holotropic breathing and
he has had some experiences with
holotropic breathing so like a
meditation based breathing routine that
if for whatever reason it activates
psychedelic chemicals in your brain
and you can really trip out and he was
talking about how he's flying for like a
half an hour and I've had various
friends do it I've yet to experience it
you tried it no yet I have yet to
experience it but I've had various
friends who've done it who have had
spectacular experiences like like
full-blown mushroom experiences for
several minutes and is it guaranteed
like if you do the breathing is it
guaranteed to get you to that state or
no no I think
you have to learn how to not as reliable
as drugs and right and also physically
demanding like I think it takes a long
time I think you have to work yourself
up into this state where this stuff
starts to happen and you also have to
probably follow some routine that's
tried-and-true
all right I don't know what that routine
is but I do know that people that I
trust including people like Adams super
smart guys will tell you that for them
it gave them the same experience as like
taking a drug all right I'm gonna look
it up because I'm not big on drugs I
don't know why just nods you're smart no
I'm not I'm also not judgmental about I
I know but no issue I'm not saying that
you would be dumb to do them but I see
you're a smart guy so if you're a smart
guy and you see drugs you see a lot of
people have problems with drugs and
you're fine with reality yeah I mean I
smoke dope in college and it just I mean
also dope was believe me son I smoke
dope but also the dope was a different
caliber then it wasn't very good it
wasn't very predictable and it just I
just had a bad experiences so whatever I
drew I like out I like whiskey me too
and I like the predictability of like
even like the difference between if I
drink my Laphroaig is my favorite scotch
like and if there's not that and there's
another that's that stuff we had the
other day I got logs good very close
Laphroaig it's it's the PD family some
people don't like the PD stuff OPA - I
think oh you've never heard of that the
marvel was half-empty though so I don't
know what the fuck happened I was
probably so drunk that I was drinking it
and not even realizing it was it's a
nice thing about scotch oh you can sip
it behind it forever yeah if you're you
know that stuff - I would imagine is
even better when you're gently sipping
it because you're dealing with this
really exotic flavor it's also good for
you isn't really you don't let me
rephrase it's not bad for him in terms
of alcohol I mean beer look it depends
how crazy you want to be about caloric
consumption and so on but beer has a lot
of calories wine has a lot of sugar and
whisky is actually pretty a pretty low
cal low sugar just high alcohol content
so the sugar works a little bit
differently but uh but no my doctor
fully approves of a couple drinks a
night
there's been research that shows that a
couple of drinks a night for most people
is actually fact my doctor who's a
researcher as well she said that if you
look at longevity the people who have
the shorter life expectancies are the
people who drink a lot not a surprise
and none so it's the people who drink
from like one and a half to maybe two
and a half maybe a little bit more
drinks a day have the longest life
expectancy she doesn't know though
whether it's the teetotalers why do they
live long the shorter it may be because
they can't alleviate the stress maybe
you know it could be that alcohol does
have physiological benefits we don't
know but the message seems to be that
everybody should drink a little bit yeah
there's got to be a benefit in
relaxation there's got to be you know I
was listening to your podcast on
loneliness hmm and in statistics it's
really good I love your pocket
appreciated thank you and and that one
you know talking about loneliness and
you know that whole correlation how they
came to the conclusion that it's like 15
cigarettes a day but that a bad feeling
that a bad feeling is bad for you and a
good feeling is probably good for you
and the little trade-off health-wise
look I kind of feel like you can get
make that up in the gym and they're like
you could achieve a good balance there's
something about like having a drink
every now and then it's nice yeah you
might hug people you want to have smiles
agree it relaxes you also you know this
is a phrase that younger people will not
remember but actually I can't remember
it either so um I think it's the social
lubricant it was a usable alcohol right
and so the fact is is that a lot of
people have a lot of trouble
communicating with other people
period whether it's loved ones you
either say you're too candid or you're
not candid enough with strangers so a
lot of people have a hard time being
with other people kind of in the way
they want to and if alcohol can act as
that kind of take the edge off as they
say it's an interesting but I'm always
looking for ways I'm always trying to
isolate the places or the circumstances
where I get good ideas and the problem
is it's very it's unpredictable walking
is the one thing that I found and the
is it writers throughout history a lot
of creative people throughout history
have embraced walking now in the old
days it was one of the few things that
you kind of could do you know you could
you weren't gonna go out and well I
guess you could have played golf or
whatever but people have been walking
for a long time and they say that
there's something about what the brain
and body do in concert with each other
on a walk which is your kind of mapping
you're kind of decoding you're kind of
figuring but you're also getting some
fizzy lock physiological stimulation and
I find that's one that's pretty good but
I wish there was a thing I could do to
make the good ideas flow because that's
the hard part I don't think if there was
a thing other than show up and start
writing if there really was a thing it
would cheapen whatever the fuck it is
that makes you have those weird thoughts
that come across like where'd that come
from
yeah a gift from the heavens ya know the
mystery is beautiful yeah yeah yeah but
walking to me I didn't really walk until
really recently I didn't go on hikes or
anything till really recently usually
would run and running a lot of times you
know you're just so tired you're not
having any good ideas you're just
thinking like how long you lived in LA
since 94 and before that I lived in this
is my whole thing set New Jersey until I
was seven San Francisco from 7 to 11
Florida from 11 to 13 Boston from 13 to
24 New York from 24 to 26 ish 27 maybe
before 27 I'm on the west coast okay so
did you find that in Boston in New York
which are easily the best walking places
of all those places you just said did
you walk a lot more there and did it
change anything for you no I was busy
while I was 20 you know my early do you
were working in clubs in New York very
tiring
I was working in clubs in New York and I
was doing a lot of road gigs and I was
playing a lot of pool and I was hanging
around with a bunch of comedians and I
wasn't going on any hikes right
we were we were you know I would go to
the gym occasionally and worked out but
we're doing comedy you know but as grown
up and I usually run with my dog he
loves to run and I haven't been able to
run recently because of a little injury
sorry for the last two months I just
been walking with them and then hiking
on the trails and he runs around and
when I was doing I was realizing like I
can listen to podcasts or I can listen
to music or I could just do it silent
and when I do it silent it's like really
interesting there's there's there's
inner dialogue that starts playing out
it's like you're having a conversation
with yourself
that it's a little therapeutic so I go
on these hour walks with my dog at the
end of it you know I feel like I've got
some a better handle on stuff I wonder
what you're saying makes me think and I
hope it's not too late for our episode
on noise because this is actually a
component that'd be good to get at is
like the way you just described slight
quiet or solitude whatever it is right I
think almost everybody who hears that
would say oh yeah I definitely see the
value of that because you know you need
time to process your thoughts to to feel
things whatever but it does make me
wonder the world is obviously more noisy
now than it used to be yeah way more and
I do wonder if you just get conditioned
out of even thinking about that like my
kids who are teenagers like I don't see
them ever having silence or solitude
right and again I don't want to be
judged I don't want to be the generation
because every generation thinks that
what the next generation does is
horrible like the people you know and
the Rolling Stones came the people who
like Perry Como said this is the worst
music ever and then the people after
that said they're owning stones you know
etc but I do wonder how much we're
losing by not having availability of
that quiet because you kind of its
unless you build your life to have a lot
of silence which I do because I'm a
writer and I sit alone all day not many
people get to have that and I wonder
what the loss is there's got to be
something because there's a shift in
intention is a attention rather and
there's a shift in focus that's Germanic
we've gone from just looking at the
world around us to fixate it on a device
you know you look at people's phone time
it's a lot of times it's six hours in a
day just constantly on their phone on
the toilet constantly on their phone
when they go to get a coffee on their
phone at their desk texting people while
they're walking to the other office
they're texting and walking down the
hallway I mean most people are on those
goddamn things all day long and there's
for sure you
putting energy into that little device
which means you're not putting energy
into thinking without that device and
though you might think of it as a well
I'm just I'm still paying attention I'm
just doing this but you're not you're
not dedicating any resource to being
bored and it's thinking about shit and
they're just walking and talking to
yourself yeah thinking to yourself and
there's something about like a long hike
you take a dog for a couple mile hike
where you're just walking and you hear
crunch crunch crunch crunch and you're
just thinking and no one's talking to
you and you're not talking to anybody
you're just walking and talking with
your dog and then you're thinking about
stuff in a way that is like a tangible
sort of meditation on your life it's
it's a real moment and we don't value
that real moment we think of it almost
as like waste I don't not even listening
to anything no good tune but it's really
like there's value in thinking and we we
haven't put a value judgment or a number
judgment on that it's interesting some
of the people you hear these days
talking the most about really limiting
or even forbidding their kids screen
time is Silicon Valley executives oh
yeah that's where you know they're so
yeah yes you have to say like you know
at a certain point you have to say okay
the writing is on the wall here but on
the other hand look every technology
that's ever been invented people get
scared of it people embrace it people
trash it and then you know for sure for
sure you there's there's always a thing
where there's an example in history
where people are wrong but then there's
the reality of what it is what it is is
an ever increasingly immersive
experience that everyone is addicted to
and when you're walking through a
Starbucks and just see nothing but
people on their phones like people in
line or on their phones people sitting
down around their phones you go through
a mall everyone's on their phone you go
through a movie theater people can't put
their fucking phone now on movies on
people are driving they're on they're on
the other hand but you got to consider
the upsides too oh there's a lot I mean
even in the even in the environment
you're describing that sounds like let's
say Starbucks everybody's on the phone
you got to think wait a minute maybe
that person over there who looks like
they're a slave to it maybe they are
maybe they're sending a text to their
gram
that they wouldn't have done they
wouldn't have been able to do ten years
ago so that's the tricky part I mean
that's why that's why I like economists
because economists are ruthless
bloodless they almost don't know what
humans are but they're very good at
measuring costs and benefits and that's
what I feel that our kind of political
social media discourse is missing people
are all for the most part advocates are
activists they pick up Blaine and they
stay in it and they want to pave over
the rest of everybody's lanes and make
it theirs yes and it's not a good way to
be no it's no you know that's another
episode that I was listening to of yours
recently about how hard it is to get
people to change their mind on things
and I forget who the expert was who was
talking but it was a really interesting
point that he had about the mind like
people say change your mind you don't
really have a mind you have the mind of
the community and if you step outside
the beliefs of the community it can be
very bad for you in terms of like your
personal connections with people and
I've really enjoyed that episode it's
funny thanks it's a it's a paradox
though because the way you just said it
like if you are in your tribe yes then
even though it can be healthier for you
and for presumably many other people for
you to change around or at least think
differently about things right you you
risk losing credibility or whatever yeah
well I mean some religions I mean that's
how they keep you right you get
ostracized there's there's religions we
that we know for you if you decide to
leave you don't just get ostracized
you're you literally you have a death
sentence like now you've you've escaped
our group you are you're you're an
outsider and my father who can both my
parents converted from Judaism to
Catholicism before they met each other
whoa yeah it was it was very unusual
happen it's a long story I'll tell you
if you really want to know but anyway
I'll do this short that's what I'm
getting to and this was during the
during the second world war they were
both in New York both first-generation
American Jews that makes sense they
converted for different reasons from
each other and then they met my father's
family was Orthodox and his father guy
named Shep's will do
who'd come here when he was in his maybe
late 20s from Poland he still lived as
every day in Brooklyn as if he were
still in Poland he didn't change at all
when my father converted and his father
found out my father was in the war he
was overseas he was home on leave and
his father was cleaning up and from my
father's pants that he'd left over a
chair rosary beads slipped out and fell
on the floor that's how his Jewish
father Shep Zelda burner found out that
his son had become a Catholic so what he
did is he proceeded to sit Shiva forum
the Jewish morning ritual were for seven
days you mourn the dead he declared that
he would never again speak to his son
and he forbade everyone in his family
from speaking to his son so I by the
time I was born I was the youngest of
eight kids in this family because they'd
become very Catholic I didn't know this
whole family of my father's was unknown
to me entirely so they did exactly what
you're saying now holy shit yeah yeah
that was what I thought too when I hold
it
mm-hmm and my mother's did the same
thing but it was less dramatic because
her family was less religious so they
still didn't like at all that she had
converted but she had any children yeah
I got a couple how did you wish again
though I it's a long side my first the
first book I wrote long before
Freakonomics was called turbulent Souls
although it got then republished under a
different title called choosing my
religion and it tells us this story of
my my two parents around me yeah I love
to hear that but I just want to put in
your head that what I was gonna ask you
is like how could you imagine a scenario
where you would be capable of doing that
to your children so no chance no chance
no chance but you're so scared yeah it's
scary it is but on the other hand I mean
this is um what Freakonomics is what I
try to learn through doing Freakonomics
is you know to measure the what and try
to figure out the why but then not be
the judge who says
that was terrible this is wonderful
because you know different people have
look if Shep's will do Peter were here
we can ask him what's your side of the
story he could tell us a story that
might convince us that you know what
this son of his did a terrible thing to
the family he did a terrible thing you
know he would say how could it be that
we Jews existed for generations and
generations and generations when ever we
were lived there was always someone
trying to you know get rid of us and
then we finally come to America you know
the land of freedom religious freedom
economic freedom and here after
generations and generations of
forefathers fought to stay Jewish here
my son decides to become Catholic what
are you thinking so you know everybody
everybody's got a perspective
everybody's got an emotional experience
so I try to respect that but no I would
not do that to my children I understand
the outrage I understand being upset but
I can't understand choosing that over
your son and over the relationship you
have over your son yeah it's ridiculous
the the saddest end of the stories and
when that grandma and my grandfather who
I never met this was a long time ago
my father's father and my father died
when I was very young so I didn't know
the story either that was why I wrote
this first book was to defy to try to
figure out this all the stuff I'm
telling you now none of this I knew
until I was in my like 20s when I was
writing this book but when Shep Zelda
burner was dying of cancer and the maybe
late 50s or so a nephew of his who my
father used to be very close with and
who looked a lot like my dad and this
guy was maybe in his early 20s late
teens by now he walked into the hospital
room and Shep soul you know on his
deathbed really thought that that was my
father his sons my dad's name was
Solomon he called him Shima and he was
he was calling out to a slain Mishima as
if he was you know happy happy to see
him it wasn't him though and my father
didn't go visit his own father dying in
the hospital because he'd been forbidden
to go anywhere near yeah so it was
terrible so look this is why religion
I've been long fascinated by religion
and I think that again if you think
about it the way that economists think
about things there are costs and there
are benefits and it's complicated I
think your honor right and they think
that's hard for people to handle and you
know people are hardcore atheists where
they don't see any value in it
whatsoever even though people are there
they're getting some sort of ethical
value moral value and the way I always
put it is like it's like a scaffolding
to live your life by you can live within
these confines and it really kind of
makes sense if you follow it loosely
that we're doing to try it for the
benefit of community and it's also like
a real community sense that comes from
meeting and Sunday with all those or
whatever day it is with your your
religion and you meet in a group of
other people that are also in the
community and you all basically are
saying together that we should do good
things and be good to people and treat
each other the way God would want us to
like all that as undeniable benefits and
also it says differently is like you're
deluding yourself like your points the
atheists who are hardcore who make
points about the preposterous nature of
a lot of religious texts they're on the
money but it doesn't mean doesn't mean
that it doesn't give people a benefit
and that I couldn't even disagree with
them continuing it because there's a lot
of people that benefit greatly from
religious someone wrote to us after that
loneliness episode came out and said how
did you fail to write about this
supposed epidemic of loneliness without
addressing the huge decline in organized
religion in America which I thought was
a very good piece of criticism that
would have been a good because you're
right it's a community you know one
other thing I would add to the list that
you provided of what it can give is
humility
right because you know if you have an
image of some superior being god deity
whatever you want to call it you kind of
understand that one mortal is you know
the world does not revolve around me the
other thing I would say and look I it's
hard for me to
scientifically logically embrace a lot
of the arguments of a lot of religions
make especially about things like the
afterlife right that said even to an
atheist I would suggest one way to think
about it is if someone does believe in
those rewards or if in economic terms
we're talking about them as incentives
even if it's a placebo effect in other
words if I if I'm encouraged to do to
treat other people well on this on the
chance that if I do so I have a reward
an eternal reward hey it's not a bad
reason to incentivize people to do well
it sounds like a nice justification from
them psychic houses you drive by they at
the neon sign they're helping people
you're giving people a sense what the
futures gonna be like how do you know
they're to help it might be imagine if
that's where the real psychics are those
neon signs maybe that's where God lives
there could be I went to one of them in
Brooklyn by the way the only one I ever
went to was in Brooklyn for an audition
in the early 90s and I'm like why not
fuck it it was like 10 bucks or
something I'm walked into this lady and
she's wrong about everything she thought
I had a brother she thought I was trying
to get into the family business
you really tired you dad no I don't even
know him it was a disaster all right so
maybe you didn't you need we need like a
Yelp for psychics and that one wouldn't
have been the good one yeah I think if
we're gonna do something like that we
bring in James Randi we having him go by
the rules and and someone like Penn
Jillette who because he understands all
those carny tricks where they do where
they can pretend that they're psyched
yes by leading you into questions but
you know what's funny I think he's a
pretty strongly professed atheist
dressed right but somehow I find his
talking about the subject incredibly
like embrace yes like he doesn't rice
because it's a smart way of doing it he
under sees a generous person he is a
really really nice person and that's
even if he disagrees with you on
something he's he'll laugh and joke
around but he's he's a nice person I
kill he'll let you have these
conversations and and and not like some
people try to shove their atheism down
your throat and like mock you and I just
don't all you're doing is reinforcing
the ideas of these people because your
act like an asshole like wow that I'm
now connecting atheism with assholes oh
fuck it
fuck
assholes you know that's what people do
it's like a natural but if someone's
nice you know um did you ever do you
know the story of Darrell Davis mmm
Darrell Davis is a gentleman who's been
on this podcast before and he is a
musician by trade but he has converted
over 200 different guys to leave the KKK
and Nazi organization Wow
and he's converted it by becoming their
friend because he was doing a show and
this guy came I'm butchering it and I'm
sorry Darryl but just what he said on
the podcast I'm sure he'd do a better
job telling the story but he was at a
show and he was playing in this band and
this guy said you were really good you
know and he sat down with the guy and
the guy said I never had a drink with a
black guy before he's like how is that
possible and he shows him his card he's
in the KKK yeah and so he's like he goes
well how you having a rational
conversation with me a normal
conversation they like you you really
think that black men are evil or black
men are dumb and and they have this
conversation it's civil conversation and
then he gives the guy his I think he
gave him his phone number said I'll call
you when I'm back in town if you want to
have this conversation again and so then
they become friends and so they go back
and forth for like months hanging out
and then three three months or so into
the friendship the guy brings his KKK
outfit he goes I want to give this to
you because I'm never wearing it again
he goes I'm done and from being this
guy's friend unreal
and so then he meets a bunch of other
ones he starts talking to them and it
just nice his pie just nice friendly
intelligent super articulate - so it's
hard - hard to describe him is dumb when
he's way smarter than you right you're
talking to him and he's so eloquent so
he converts more and more and more it
converted a guy who was a Nazi who's a
he's converted a bunch of people it's
more than 200 now and he continues to do
and there's been there's some pieces
about it online but hearing him say it
and hearing him talk about is the most
amazing he just he grew up in a way that
he didn't really experience racism until
he came to America thinks to me like six
years old he's from Italy right that's
where he was from before that up until
then I think somewhere where he just
didn't experience it and then when he
was a little boy people
were throwing things at him in a parade
and he had no idea I couldn't understand
it
he'd never he didn't know and stay at a
Pullman side and say it's because you're
black he's like white like he couldn't
believe it so because the fact that he
didn't have it in his early childhood
and then he had it when he was a young
boy and realized how crazy it was that
he didn't experience this before this
one moment and became obsessed with it
was Italy he had this is wikipedia says
he grew up all over the world but when
he came back in 10th when he was 10 he
was in an all-white Cub Scout Pack in
Massachusetts yeah so that's what it
wasn't here so it was ten years old and
and if you want to pick somewhere to
experience kind of straight-up racism
Massachusetts it's a good place to start
it was definitely some spots and I have
some thoughts on that I feel like
there's that heirloom civilization that
still like it landed there from boats
just a couple of decades ago I mean my
grandparents came over in the I think
they were here in the the 20s from where
were the 30s from Italy and Ireland and
everybody came from somewhere right
there's mostly most of them three of
them came from Italy one of them came
from Ireland some 3/4 Italian but it's
the the families of those people were
risk-taking savages they didn't even
have a video to watch right they just
jumped in a fucking boat and hoped
America was better and then when they
got there they got checked in at Ellis
Island they then they started working in
factories and scratching and clawing and
there's just a lot of struggle that's
still in that part of the world that you
when you come to California one of the
first things you feel is like a lighter
a lighter sense of discourse than the
East Coast is the East Coast I always
felt like people had their guard up a
little bit more a little bit more tense
a little bit more like what the fuck did
you say there was a little bit more of
that a little bit more sketchy people
just the the echoes of the savage past
it's still in the soil you know I hear
you but there's also so the thing that I
like about New York I don't mean to
trash California I like California law I
Love New York but man when I'm in
California first of all it feels much
more like a foreign country to me than
any other place in America
maybe like what makes it seem like a
foreign country it feels because I feel
people have a manner and a style that is
totally divorced from this intensity
that I'm used to write for in New York
now I grew up on a farm in upstate New
York so I grew up not in the hurly-burly
New York City was scared because my
parents once they converted and they
became Catholic they needed to have
someplace where you could have tons of
kids so we grew up in the middle of
nowhere so I grew up I was a farm kid
and so the intensity of a city scared me
until ultimately I moved to New York for
a variety reasons and then I then I
caught the bug and now I love cities so
I love California but when I come here I
feel like it's running on a different
voltage you know yeah and I am envious
of people's ability to run like that
like they seem right like their
shoulders like you look at me I'm
sitting here my shoulders always up to
my ears like kind of just a built-in
tension and I feel like I thrive on it
maybe I do I mean things have worked out
okay but like I said when I look at look
at the way people are sort of
congenitally relaxed
I envy it on the other hand I think that
that intensity produces some things that
I I like a lot like I like I also like
the environment of a you know of
university campus the to me the tricky
part is there's that fine line between
intensity and competition that treats it
like a zero-sum game so I don't like to
be around environments where people are
trying to win so that they can beat
somebody else except in sports that's
why sports are awesome sports are a good
proxy for life people can be very
competitive you win or lose you go home
you come back and do it again because
you've lost it doesn't make you a bad
person right sports are very valuable I
think for also for war
you know I mean it's well that was
football yeah reason why
invented it right you know about
population densities right that you know
you can accurately depict or detect how
many people live in a given area by
putting a camera on one red light and
then a camera on another red light and
then as the people walk by measure how
fast they walk no kidding yeah I didn't
know that and when they do that you know
if they swim faster is denser
yes faster denser also how many
syllables that they say per sentence how
quickly they say those syllables that
there's actually a cadence a speed that
an uptick what do you talk about he's
talking about the word you're saying
there's a people get to the chase cut to
the chase and I think that that urge to
walk faster that are just talk faster is
an energy and that energy you know we're
looking at in terms of its results right
the results are you can actually detect
if you know the formula you look at a
camera here and a camera there you know
a timer so someone walked from here to
there you add it all up and you can
guess like really accurately within a
million people pretty late someone lives
it yeah yeah I think it's because
there's energy that comes out of cities
my friend Jeff lives in New York my
manager he's lived there forever and he
loves it he goes I'd never leave New
York I Love New York
that fucking energy of this city cuz it
gives him juice right I think not for
everybody we should say right not for
everybody some people I think just get
weirded out by and they need to be alone
and some people like a yard and some
people like peace and quiet but some
people live for that bad man fuck you
they live they live for being stacked on
top of a building with strangers below
them and everyone's all together in this
hive feeding off you know what's
interesting is you know how will you 52
okay so I'm 56 so great thank ditto so
we're the same generation and we
remember that back when you know
computerization was starting and the
internet was starting that all the
predictions were that you know now
anybody can do anything from everywhere
so nobody's gonna have any reason to
have to live anywhere and cities are
just gonna empty out yeah exactly wrong
around the world the more digital we've
gotten the more in fact the urban
population now the share of the human
population is urban is higher now than
it's ever been in the history of the
world it's unbelievable so it
says to me is and this is not about New
York vs. California anymore well that
says to me is even when you can engage
with people remotely or have a lot of
space whatever there's something about
humans wanting to rub up against each
other physically intellectually etc that
is incredibly strong I inaudible that's
why going to live see live music and
things like that it's a shared
experience you're all seeing something
live there's a benefit to that and I
always tell people like if you watch a
comedy special on television you that
comedy special is that the very best 70%
is good as seeing it live it's never
100% yeah because you're not there so it
might be great because it's a funny
person but you're missing for sure at
least 30% and then you know when you're
live there's like this intangible
quality you feel it in the air when
you're all laughing there's a buzz that
everybody gets you're laughing together
yeah like right now it reminds me of I
once watched somebody else's wedding
video I can't remember the circumstances
somebody forced at gunpoint it's pretty
it was pretty close to that and and they
said it was some it was somebody showing
me like their siblings wedding video
because they thought it was they said it
was such an amazing experience it was so
warm
it was a lot to get and I felt like I
was watching a detergent commercial like
no emotional reaction because I wasn't
there I wasn't there that's the worst
thing that people make you do well they
make you sit and watch they're the only
thing worse if someone was in a really
bad band and they want you to listen to
their album believe in front of you yeah
and you have to sit there and go dude
you making me do this when I played
music my so I had I never so first of
all when I started in this band I was
and up we were in North Carolina and my
family was mostly up in New York State
and so on so they weren't close but then
when we started to travel and tour and
and whatnot we would get within their
range and they'd come to see us these
are like my older siblings who I love
they're great people but I would say to
them I don't think this really is gonna
be for you it's gonna be pretty loud
raucous rock and roll a little bit punky
a little bit whatever and they're like
no no I want to come see little brother
did it so then they see a show I
remember this one show we played at the
old Ritz in New York and I remember my
brother who's a musician by the way and
very good musician but much more refined
than on I was he came up and he said you
guys really looked like you were having
fun up there like we weren't I wasn't
you had so much energy up there so yeah
the difference between the experience
from the inside and perceived experience
was a massive gap yeah for sure
yeah going to see something live like
that where it's bad is actually extra
super painful like when you watch a
comedian bomb on stage and you're in the
audience you're funny like you're mad at
this person for putting you through this
like oh my gosh you can't be mad at him
don't you isn't it more empathy than
anger sure yeah but sure but you there's
a lot of anger to because who are you
are being tortured like imagine if it's
not really physical pain but there is a
certain level of emotional pain you
experience that someone's bombing
someone's in front of you like oh god
especially me because I've done stand-up
for so many years like I know what it's
like to bomb I've bombed so I see
someone bombing I'm like yikes I gotta
get out of here I can't take it it's
almost like my guts are on fire
the thing I always wondered about comics
is why they don't cheat more because
laughter is plainly very contagious
right yeah so every time I've seen
someone bomb I always felt like if one
or two people had started going with it
laughing responding you mean cheap more
by packing the audience some people
laugh something or just putting your
iPhone in the audience and having it
start laughing I don't know how to
there's a lot of ways to cheat because
I've always thought that it's such a
it's such an obvious dynamic that
laughter real is very very contagious
but even like you see like kids in
school when they're supposed to not be
laughing in one kid laughs they they all
can't stop it's just incredibly
contagious behavior so I think if you
did pipe in laughter first of all I'm
not saying well maybe I am okay that's
most drastic let's say you plant people
in the audience right you could probably
swing things in a way from a really bad
set to maybe an okay set but you're
never gonna make it funny see all the
best way to do that is to just make it
actually they focus to bothered to be
good that's not that cheating things not
helping you ever it's like it's gonna
get in the way you make anything from it
it's like people that steal other
people's jokes they never learned how to
write you know they did they you have to
figure out the language of it and when
you're up there if you're just doing
fake laughs in the background to juice
it up you're not gonna know how to get
real ones yeah I'm gonna feel weird
about it oh you're gonna be also you're
gonna know that you're doing it the
audience is gonna know that something's
wrong you're gonna do Rea so maybe I'm
not talking about cheating per se as
sense as having as having some and I'm
sure every comic does this already so
it's not like I'm telling anybody
anything but having some something in
your pocket that's gonna get them on
your side even if for a little while
just to get the momentum going in your
way we certainly do have some bits that
you know work because like when you say
like if you bomb or somebody else bombs
you could give exactly the same set an
hour later to a slightly different crowd
and it would go great right so now times
sometimes you're bombing because you get
off on a bad start like you'll you'll
come up with it like the real sketchy
time is when you're writing new material
that's when that's touch and go the way
I always like to describe it's like you
have no weapons like you're going into a
fight but everything's made out of
rubber like fuck like nothing's good yet
right yeah like when you you have new
material you have a stack of notes and
about four or five premises and one or
two of them might be any good but I got
to go through those other premises that
suck multiple times to find out for sure
that they're no good all right let me
ask you a question when that's happening
to you do you learn over time to not let
it hurt your ego to the point where
you're gonna get even worse in other
words if you're not doing well what you
need to do is you need to say I've got
this material I need to work on it
because it's gonna get better but I
could imagine that if you start bombing
what happens is you just feel so hurt
that you get worse and worse as you go
how do you fight against that yeah it's
a psychological mind game for sure you
you definitely could look and I've seen
it happen to comedians while they're
writing a whole new
our it's almost like they lose their
glow as a human because they're just
eating shit all the time and we get away
from them like they're diseased like I'm
selling bombs they come offstage
you get away from them because we know
what it's like I don't want to feel
contagious a little bit yeah it's you
got to get out of the room like one of
the worst things that people do and I
don't know why they do it but a lot of
comedians like to bring terrible
comedians with them on the road so that
they look like a hero it's a really
sneaky move and they literally hire
people that don't work any other way is
that a bad idea ultimately terrible idea
because you want everybody to have fun
and if you make them sit through 20
minutes if someone was terrible if
you're torturing them are you do you end
up lowering your own standard because
you're around you think we're in the
vibe of the show you it just fucks it up
especially if you're doing it on purpose
you know there's a thing that's going on
onstage that's not quantified and is
that there's a mass hypnosis that's
happening when someone is killing for me
as an audience member my recognition of
this is as a person who performs it and
also as an audience member when I'm an
audience member and someone's killing
I'm letting them think for me right I'm
not even thinking I'm just like letting
them take me down a trip like say like
Dave Attell Dave Attell was at The
Improv the other night we work together
and he was fucking amazing I like the
one of the best sets I've seen from him
and he's always been amazing but God he
was on fire and we were all it was me my
friend Owen Smith and Tony Hinchcliffe
we're sitting in the back room and we
were watching Dave and we were in a
trance we were just laughing we were
letting him think for us you know I'm
saying like he's doing all the thinking
we're just on a little ride that Dave's
taking us on this ride
and as an audience member I recognize
that there's a mass hypnosis there's a
thing that happens well we all get into
this mindset and if someone has like
really well-crafted material like Dave
Attell and they take you on that you let
them you're like we the attenders gonna
take us on a ride you know I mean you
think the same thing happens a
when a politician is speaking that's a
good question for sure Trump has a lot
of elements of stand-up comedy in his
routines for sure a hundred percent
if you watch his most recent speech
where he's making fun of Joe Biden
saying 150 million people were killed
with guns he's like I looked at the
first lady
he's literally doing stand-up huh who
does a very good job by the way I looked
at the first lady like where all these
bodies where all these 150 million
people that's half the population like
they just let him say nobody talks to
him he's like hello Idaho like you're in
Iowa Oh like he's doing stand-up so
someone took it and they made a video
saying Donald Trump at the Apollo and so
they put him doing this speech with
audience reaction from people watching
stand-up comedy and laughing and a laugh
track over it and it seems real it seems
like he's a comic so he's what about
Bernie Bernie for sure is a powerful
speaker but I don't think he's not funny
you'll say a funny thing every now and
then race but are the same when you talk
about like going along for the ride like
they're doing the thinking for you such
an interesting idea
bright is a trustworthy person people
trust him they see him up there he's not
polished right the thing about Bernie
it's like when he's saying things
there's um xand there's us and there's
you know quality there it's a different
kind of polished Whitney is a polished
performer yeah like he he's like a comic
doing scat you know it's that that you
know it's like a I'm telling you that's
exactly what it is it's an amazing it's
an amazing thing he's like filling in
the blanks loading up his weapon for the
next line that he's gonna throw and
called crazy Hillary lock her up lock it
stand up it's basically like he's doing
stand-up
that's why Biden is so fucked he's so
fucked because he can't talk right he
has a really hard time talking he keeps
screwing things up and he and it's a
real bad horse to bet on because he's an
older guy
you're still a Bernie guy I was moaning
right I loved the guy I loved what he
represents yeah look I don't know if
he's gonna be able to get anything
implemented but I love what he
represents as a man who wants to do good
for people that don't have much that's
that's a sentiment there's a there's a
quality to that that I think helps us as
a community as a community of the United
if we have this agreement hey let's see
what we can do let's see what we can do
to balance things out and to for the
downtrodden for the people that are
hurting concentrate on them and he's
made that a huge priority of his life
and always has and to deny that it's
like look what he's trying to do I don't
know if he can get any of this shit past
I don't think anybody knows until he
gets in there but the idea is we're
saying we want better for people who
don't have much yeah that's what he
stands for
and you can call it democratic socialism
but but it's an idea the idea is like
helping people just helping people
helping people you don't even know
wasting the world a little bit better
place for the working person what's then
the corollary what's the trump idea and
why did it succeed bunch of pussies out
there trying to ban free speech a bunch
of pussies out there come on fuck
America's number one fuck yeah fuck yeah
there's also he doesn't talk like a
politician you know he talks about China
you go to them listening motherfuckers
when they charge you 25 percent every
yea more stand-up it's more stand-up
right it's way more entertaining he's
the most entertaining
forget about value judgment of me on who
he is the person without a doubt the
most entertaining president that's ever
lived and not even close there's not
even a close second he buries all of
them and he drags him into his fight
even Hillary is now talking differently
about other people she said about Bernie
nobody liked him she would have never
said that before Donald Trump she would
have never uttered those words his
victory over her is deep in her DNA now
hmm and she's starting to exhibit some
of his patterns yeah I saying nobody
ever liked him how could you say that
what kind of crazy of course millions of
people like him they're voting for him
millions millions of people to say
nobody like him or nobody liked him in
the sitcom course of course people like
him and then they started writing I like
Bernie whose hashtag I like Bernie start
popping up like that behavior is a
direct reaction to her getting pounded
on by Donald Trump through the entire
campaign all right so let me ask you
this you've talked to a lot of people
from all different realms in here right
if we can agree let's say that being
entertaining is
a great prerequisite for qualification
for being president if we can agree on
that Jeff seems pretty easy
yes very agree on what can be done
whether it's in the political sphere the
media sphere putting something in the
drinking water to let people to
encourage people to have a little bit
more of what you're after whether it's
compassion whether it's understanding
whether it's balance whether it's
moderation in other words why is the
entertainment force winning right now
and if you don't like that notion what
can be done about it
well the entertainment force is writ for
whatever reason is being portrayed
through Trump only see he's not a
politician he's a guy who's a media star
and he's been a media star for decades
he knows how to manipulate the media he
knows how to sit on the Letterman couch
and kill he's been doing it for a long
time he's very comfortable being in
front of cameras none of those people
have those kind of skills and nobody
thought of it as a skill they thought of
a politician being able to do their
politician stuff well this guy's calling
you crazy Ted or lyin Ted or you know
lyin Hillary he just makes up names for
sleepy Joe I mean and I'm smiling
because it's funny because he's good at
it he's funny he's good at it there's
the problem you shouldn't have a goddamn
popularity contest to see who controls
thermonuclear weapons that's fucking
stupid it's stupid don't allow people
it's vote but it's existence but in the
system we've got see that's what I'm
asking you is what now well the system's
only a couple hundred years old I know
even this is this kind of I mean the way
that these elections are because I don't
think it was I mean if you look at
lincoln-douglas debates those were
actual debates it's two people it has
evolved a lot but I mean let's say that
you're not happy with the way it is and
there's a lot of people even there are
people who like Trump quite a bit on
some dimensions who are very troubled by
other dimensions so there's a lot of
people out there who are open to like no
let's let's try to adjust the thinking
let's try to change their minds let's
try to not be influenced as much by what
we're being influenced by do you have
any uh you have any pointers the the
real problem that we're having is this
tribal battle of left versus right
the strongest voices on the left the
loudest voices and the most extreme
often times are the worst
representations and the same with the
right the loudest most extreme team
members are the people at the front of
the line fuck yeah we're gonna kick
their ass like is that guy with me am I
on this team
fuck we had a war now we're in a war
with the left I think that's what it is
you know and um and there's also these
ideas that we have that are cemented in
stone that you know if you're a
left-wing person you believe in X Y & Z
this is your doctrine right there most
of us have like a little bit of this
yeah maybe you believe in the Second
Amendment maybe you believe in the First
Amendment maybe you think that maybe you
know maybe we should incorporate a lot
of things we do with Fire Department and
you know and do that to schools and do
that to housing and do that to make sure
that all the the stuffs covered make
housing like an important part of a
civilization like for everybody we did a
piece Freakonomics radio piece a year or
two ago called America's hidden duopoly
and it was about the Democratic and
Republican Party basically acting like
Pepsi and Coke right they kind of divide
and conquer the market and they've built
an industry that is incredibly valuable
yeah the thing that's amazing to me is
this Trump won the presidency as the
Republican that the RNC most wanted to
get rid of Bernie last time around was
the Democrat that the DNC wanted to get
rid of they lost by getting their
candidate Hillary in this time Bernie
who may very well become the candidate
is again the party that the DNC is out
to get so what does it say you've got a
duopoly literally the machines running
the system that we kind of let ourselves
get manipulated into buying like you
said I've never understood my mom my mom
and dad were Democrats for a long long
time typical Catholic okay
maybe not so typical because they were
former Jewish kappa typical Catholic
working-class big family meat potatoes
issues no-brainer that they're Democrats
okay and then but my mom as a devout
Catholic she started the local
right-to-life chapter in upstate New
York where we lived New York State had
legalized abortion before roe v wade so
she was fighting that fight
early when that happened and the
Democrats lined up against in favor in
favor of legalized abortion she switched
parties everything else about her was
still mostly Democratic but she hadn't
become a Republican because of life and
that's a that's another powerful one but
it's integrated into the right and it
happens to all of us know we take
there's one issue that kind of sets
people off and then they have to join
the team then they may you know with a
lot of people I know it's a Second
Amendment right people that are afraid
of their house being broken into and
they don't have anything to protect
their family and they'd otherwise be
kind of libertarian issue Democrats yeah
and it's almost always guys who have
kids yeah once you have kids and you
think about someone breaking in your
house and and doing something to your
family you know you get real scared and
then you want to get guns all right let
me ask you a slightly different question
it's actually totally different question
as I'm sure you know if you look at any
indicator of like prosperity longevity
health literacy access to food etc
humankind is way better off than it's
ever been
yes no without question on average
there's still a lot of people with a lot
of trouble there's still parts of the
world that are still in bad shape and so
it's trending in an amazing amazing
direction why are we so unhappy
I don't think we know how to manage our
life correctly in life doesn't come with
a guidebook it doesn't come with when
you're in this condition seek out these
remedies start exercising get together
with your friends tell them you love
them meet up and have dinner and hug
each other sleep well sleep well drink
water
you know there's an whiskey a little bit
of whiskey too right and also you know
so many of us have a bad head start like
you're starting off you know like how
about your dad he'd been growing up
getting kicked out of the family yeah I
mean and then starts a family of his own
well you don't even know your
grandfather I mean it's madness right
madness so you're you're coming out of
this stressful pocket or maybe your dad
goes to jail or maybe your your mom dies
when you're young all these things that
happen to people were they have this bad
start right and then they develop
defense mechanisms to deal with other
insecurities and they get around similar
minded people and you
curse the world and fuck everybody and
fuck the police and fuck to this and
then you get in these communities of
people that think the same way and then
maybe there's gangs and maybe there's
drugs and maybe there's crime and
despair and sadness and it may be just
negative people maybe there's none of
the above maybe there's no danger it's
just fucking annoying everyday people
complaining about shit and you're stuck
in the mud of humanity with people it's
real hard to engineer 350 million people
out of that but for yourself you can
take actions to make your life better
and if everybody did that if everybody
took actions to make their life a
happier experience by doing those things
by exercising eating well hugging
friends enhancing community just trying
to be nicer to people everybody there
would be a massive shift so let me ask
you this I feel like the list you just
gave is basically my list to write I try
that's what I try to do pretty much and
they all sound attractive yes so why is
it so hard for so many people to do it
because people are lazy and the reason
why we're lazy is because it's very
difficult for us to waste resources on
something that we don't currently do and
even though we know something to be true
that if you do this long-term benefits
are that but short terms like I want to
do it right now right because your body
like craves relaxation because it used
to be a very rare thing to achieve
alright so if you could pick one thing
let's say let's say I'm a bird why would
I pick one thing well the first thing I
would say the first thing let's say
let's say that I feel like you know what
society says everything's great I'm
unhappy
financially okay why is exercise the one
because your blood pumping right release
natural endorphins and you legitimately
feel better I know I also think of the I
think about this all the time I think of
your body as almost like the energy in
your body is like a battery and it
requires a certain amount of use and
when you don't use it it overflows and
then you get weird behavior and
overreacting to things and you almost
like get antsy you got to get up and
move cognitively it's a big I find what
do you do with let's say you have to
take two long flights let's say you're
unable to exercise for like you know 24
36 hours you're fine you don't have no I
mean you
you know you don't know how many days
off yeah yeah it's fine mmm it's fine
that the whole key is just to develop
regular habits if you have to take two
or three days off it doesn't matter the
whole key is just regular habits what's
your sleep regime oh yeah
tells me every night how much I sleep
yeah and how has it improved it has the
feedback improved your sleep because it
may be accountable yeah I was like I get
like seven eight hours every night and I
was getting like four and five and I was
like oh you lying bitch so it maybe and
maybe concentrate more on getting what
we do to sleep better or sleep well it's
just a matter of the time it's my what
did you change like do you sleep with
earplugs and I mask anything like I
don't have a problem sleeping okay I
sleep well you just problem is doing
things and waking up early and I realize
like okay if I'm gonna wake up that
early I got to go to bed early yeah I
really need to you're not a Napper no I
don't know how come um I just never
enjoy it really yeah you never tried it
no I have no but doesn't work like when
I'm done I'm done
do you drink caffeine yes have you ever
tried the caffeine nap do you know about
yes yes yeah I know what it so you
that's not my problem all right my
problem is when I'm off when I shut down
I shut down say what 20 minute nap
becomes eight hours it's not interested
I mean a horse I don't mean to criticize
your now you're plenty productive
plainly but is there's a balance there's
a balance between being productive and
being happy right and I think it's hard
to find that balance because we look at
like the the numbers that come in
whether it's money or productivity or
you know a number of things you've been
able to create and you think of that as
being like but look I can get so much
done but if you maybe got less of those
numbers but more of the numbers in terms
of the amount of sleep you got you would
enjoy the whole overall experience more
I worry that uh I think for a lot of
people who are successful in different
realms could be sports business
entertainment whatever success is
intoxicating yes and then you want more
event right and then it becomes very
easy to see that as the main goal at the
expense of loved ones other people I'm
looking for I'd like to know how and I
know some people do manage that really
well and I know some incredibly
successful people are
incredibly generous in spirit to people
around them but I find that's pretty
rare I find that success often is driven
by a sort of ambition that's a little
bit unseemly and I'd like to know how to
deal with that a little bit but it
doesn't have to be but it seems like it
would be if it's a number game right if
success meaning like you're in a
business you're trying to sell the most
placards or whatever like whatever it is
you know you have this thing in your
head and like you're really driven just
like you're selling placards you're
already starting behind ok widgets
alright you're selling the most widgets
and you you have this goal in your mind
of being number one and you're obsessed
and you know and everyone's gonna tell
your story Oh Bob he wouldn't let it go
every time I got there he was in the
office and he left after everybody but
look now Bob's got a fucking yacht and
he's also got a pacemaker right and
Bob's ready to take over any minute now
but also I think the thing is is in
pursuit of success I think what often
happens that I've seen in people I know
and in people I don't know but I've read
about is that your moral compass starts
to shift now you're willing it's not
necessarily true there's a lot of people
that are successful and we're only
talking about business right we're not
about athletics are we I'm talking about
thinking of some people in academia who
you know even though the average person
may not consider the stakes in academia
super high but like if you get in a big
university department and you start to
write papers and get published and then
get grants and accolades and so on
you're on a trajectory that's very
intoxicating and then all of a sudden I
think it's uh it's more I think it's
tempting or not even tempting I don't
think it's even a conscious decision you
start to make decisions that are not as
sound not as morally acceptable as you
would have made five years ago when you
were starting out and I don't like I see
that happening a lot I see it in media I
see people cutting corners I see it in
business academia I don't have any
experience with but I would imagine that
that would be particularly frustrating
because those are the people that you
call upon to be the objective purveyors
of knowledge that are talking to you
about this because they're dedicated to
be an intellectual exactly you know what
I think of as being a social how how
strange is this though how strange is it
that we talk
about economists for just for one
example but it's a good example because
because they're the most involved in
policy and so on
there are democratic economists and
they're Republican economists you know
that shouldn't make sense right right
but it does there's a list that when
you're if you're a Republican and you
win the White House and you start to
assemble your Council of Economic
Advisers you get the list of the
Republican or the conservative
economists now I'm not saying that's a
terrible thing prima you know per se but
the fact is is that like we said before
if you're in the tribe if you're for one
thing you got to be in for everything
and that's not a good way of what goes
on between the two parties ultimately
you know in a lot of cases that we've
experienced have been about perception
like there's a difference between the
perceived actions of Barack Obama versus
the perceived actions of George Bush
like even though like things that would
freak people out about bush people
didn't really seem to budge on with
Obama like drone attacks right like a
lot of people killed in drones attacks
that were innocent and you know that
happened during the Bush administration
inhabitant Obama but people particularly
on the Left treated the Bush
administration's drone attacks very
differently than they treated when Obama
was doing it they seemed to like let it
go because it didn't fit with their
narrative of the evil you know
military-industrial complex influenced
president who only gives a fuck about
money it didn't didn't seem to jive with
that so they let it go and think because
it's a team thing they were they were
rooting for their team to be good so
they listened my teams made some fucking
slips up this year but I'm with the
Yankees all the way yeah basically what
you're doing you're just doing it for
the demet exactly yeah if you're if
you're watching a football game let's
say you're watching a football game in a
bar and you're with let's I'm a Steelers
fan since I'm watching with Steelers fan
we're playing whoever Ravens the minute
there's a call let's say pass
interference call the room divides
equally because one side knows that it's
a bad call and the other side knows and
these are people who if you took them
out out of a football context yeah
totally gonna have different feel
they're not going to experience
everything in the same way and even if
it's a bad call as long as it's for your
team absolutely yes we got it and once
in a while if it's such a bad calling
site we get we got lucky there but all
those
it's amazing little fun in it right the
triumph I agree and that's why sports
again it's it's like a low-stakes
you know replicas of life and war and
all that stuff relatively so I'm totally
in favor of that I am so I think it does
show how kind of you know suggestible
wheel are super suggestible in selves
how strange it is that you could make
this format like football you know a
ball across the line represents a
victory right and we've decided to like
make huge amounts of money attached to
this game and then fill up the biggest
arenas we have we have enormous 50,000
plus arenas of people cheering when a
ball goes across the line there was this
story I read about some rabbi in Europe
one hundred two hundred three hundred
years ago something and he wanted his
students at the C Shiva to just study
more and when they would have a break
they would always want to go outside and
play football soccer and they called
football and he would say to them you
know I don't understand the treasures of
Torah are so huge they're eternal why do
you want to go out and kick around a
ball and they said no no you don't
understand rabbi it is so much fun it's
got a little competitive we get X it's
just great he said they said you know
just come outside and watch it once and
we think you'll see how it works and how
great it is so this old rabbi comes out
once at lunchtime and he's watching the
two teams with the ball going back and
forth they come back in after lunch and
he says I think I've solved the problem
for you if you get two balls instead of
one you won't have to be fighting each
other all the time over the one ball
everybody could be happy so you know
different ways of looking at the world
yeah for sure
yeah if everyone can look at the world
that way the world would be a better
place yeah it's um it's sports are for
whatever reason the best escape for a
lot of people because it's it's exciting
and unpredictable and it's really
happening whereas a movie even though
it's an escape you know it's not really
happening agreeing right you watch a
sport man if a guy can make a fuckin
3-pointer at the buzzer and it wins the
game and everybody goes nuts
that shit's real like jazz
turn to your friends everybody's so
excited hey no wonder so this is the
universal symbol for yes right but
here's the one that also gets me the
universal symbol for something great
almost happened that didn't is this ah
hands on their head everybody around the
world where does that come from
in the human head what kind of where in
the code dictated that that's how we're
going to express but everywhere around
the world that's what they do that's a
really good question yeah I don't have
an don't know he's like my brain right
now
together my head still here what's your
favorite sport to watch um I like
fighting mm-hmm cuz I do commentary for
the other side and I find them the rest
of the sports to be boring I don't
really watch other sports you like
fighting because of the tactics cuz the
action etcetera or is it because the
personality primarily the excitement
that comes from being insanely difficult
it's the way I describe it is re for
everybody's heard this a million times
its high level problem solving with dire
physical consequences so you know that
they're on this this crazy path where
one guy's trying to slam a shin and the
other guy's face and the other guy's
trying to do the same they trying to
take each other down choke each other
and and to lose is horrible and to win
is glorious and everybody's cheering and
then you know when it all plays out live
the rush of these guys that these guys
experience and then the rush that the
audience experiences it's hard for me to
watch like tennis mmm I get it I get it
it's very athletic I'm not there's no
knock on the athletes yeah and again I
like playing pool so I'm watched a lot
of dumb shit I won't get pool on YouTube
every tale so so let me ask you this
UFC let's say is I mean it's doing
pretty well it's not it's not the
bonanza it looked like it might be a
couple years ago right business-wise the
leagues forever is it is that right yeah
so the athletes themselves I know the
superstars do great what about the rest
of them is it a steep pyramid and is it
it's a lesser in the middle it's a less
steep pyramid than boxing unboxing when
you see the undercard so fights like if
you see a fight like Manny Pacquiao
Floyd Mayweather is biggest
boxing pay-per-view fight ever huge
fight right millions and millions and
millions of dollars the guy's further
down the bottom of the chain they're
getting an awesome opportunity to fight
in front of the crowd that's gonna see
Manny Pacquiao vs. Floyd Mayweather and
they don't make much money and that's
the case in boxing overwhelmingly in the
early stages of a person's career it's
the same as MMA and then as they become
famous they start making more the
difference is there's a Floyd Mayweather
and the closest thing we have to that is
a Conor McGregor and maybe Ronda Rousey
Floyd Mayweather when you people talk
about money in boxing you're talking
about Floyd Mayweather I mean maybe you
were talking about Tyson at one point in
time and Ali before him and Sugar Ray
Leonard the guys who made the big money
Roy Jones jr. but there's only a couple
of those guys ever even in boxing it's
the same thing with MMA there's a couple
guys like Conor McGregor or you know a
few superstars and once you get beyond
them once you get to number 100 let's
say well then you're trying to become
number one it's not a thing that you're
gonna have any sort of security doing
right you know do you like that so
that's what economists call a tournament
model right which is where a lot of
people are willing to enter it because
the the winning is so high but you know
that you're not going to make anything
unless you advance a whole lot would you
rather see MMA like that or would you
rather see more like would you rather
see it more like the team sports where
you're at least guarantee you're on a
salary right so NFL if you're the
fifty-third guy on the roster you're not
making a ton of money but you know
you're gonna make money as long as you
don't get hurt would you rather see MMA
a little bit more like that would you
rather see the the fighters have more of
a league and have more leverage or do
you like the way it's set up now
fighters are always going to be
individuals it's very difficult to get a
fighter in a union that's why it's never
been done
although the PGA Tour is basically the
Union for the got they did that that's
what the golfers did and tennis is a
little bit different but anyway I mean
couldn't they do it if well now UFC has
too much leverage I think for that to
happen right even if they didn't it
would be very difficult to get fighters
to not jump in and take a fight because
opportunities are rare and when a fight
comes along if you say look I'm gonna
offer you fight Conor McGregor for X
amount of money and you're like I want
more and they like look this guy
standing right right right that's always
going to be that case and
you're Conor McGregor yeah and that's
the business model that's always been
the business model in boxing but in UFC
it's different and UFC it's controlled
by one company so they can force big
fights whereas there's a lot of big
fights in boxing so this is their
justification for this structure that
they have those big fights in boxing
didn't occur and it frustrated the fans
and the reason why I didn't curse is
multiple promoters well under one banner
you have one promotion that has the most
fighters and the ones who and the best
presumably and the ones who are the most
popular make the most money the question
is should the guys the bottom make more
I think they should and I've always
thought that because I think it's a very
very very difficult thing and I think we
should be trying to give them enough
money so that they can do their best if
we can see the best fighters come up I
think one of the impediments of guys
coming up is that in the beginning you
have to work a full-time job as well as
fight it's really hard to train it's
hard to make that leap and if we get
someone we could sign it I agree with
you there should be some sort of a
minimum and that minimum would we would
agree upon something that would be
sustainable if you're fighting we'll say
once or twice a year on the other hand
with twice a year at least okay
especially the beginning you would fight
you'd probably fight as many times as
you can in the beginning you'd fight
three times a year if you could four
even and guys like Donald Cerrone even
at the top still fights like four or
five times a year just cuz he's a wild
man
so theoretically like if you're looking
at at as supply and demand it seems that
there's a lot of supply as fighters
right it seems like there's a lot of
audience demand but what UFC is doing is
according to you kind of smartly
constraining the supply so that the
quality is high yes if you were to come
in let's say you or ten other people
were to come in with alternate leagues
to UFC right now and take you know after
the UFC as whatever let's say there's a
hundred very good fighters right now
we're 50 I have no idea but let's say
you take the next 200 and make those
other leads are you saying that would
basically be what happened to boxing and
then do end up when we are doing that ya
know if you know but there's multiple
organizations that actually are doing
that there's one called Bellator that's
huge Don the paramount Network its
enormous and it's this the biggest rival
to the UFC in America but still pales in
comparison
but there's world-class fighters there
and they're starting to get people from
the UFC that they
their contract up and they're still in
their prime and then Bellator comes with
a better more track GOC ever and they
take that offer also in Bellator they're
allowed to have sponsors the UFC is
solely sponsored by Reebok so the
fighters of one sponsor that they wear
the Reebok gear and do the athletes get
a shake they get they get a share and I
don't know how its structured but in the
butt I know that the fighters prefer the
Bellator model which is they can find
their own sponsors and if they have good
management company the management can
get three or four sponsors on their
shorts and they might make more money
from sponsors than they do from the
fight itself which is what was in the
UFC so a lot of fighters were really
bummed out when they switched over to a
different business model so that I think
probably better for fighters but then
here's another thing those fighters have
to enforce that they have to chase those
down chase those sponsors down a lot of
them go bad on you and a lot of them
don't pay and there was a real problem
with that with fighters where you know
they would gotten fucked over by a
couple different sponsors and it created
a hassle and so so then you have
fighters who didn't get paid but the
sponsor did get put on UFC oh boy and
thank you so is the UFC responsible like
who's responsible for that and it turns
out it's the fighters that are
responsible but that's a fucking giant
burden on them whether in the middle of
training to try to go sue some you know
fight gear company that didn't pay them
their money I don't think it's a
justification for not giving them the
freedom to choose their own sponsors I
think a better scenario would probably
be have one sponsor available that you
you know like everyone couldn't choose
this sponsor or a competing sponsor you
know like maybe something else so like
you could have a Reebok guy that's
fighting against a guy who's like some
motor oil company yeah yeah bothering
them it's like making it mandatory it
takes some of the power we've got
fighters for indigo so forgive my
ignorance but getting back to just the
actual fighting two fights a year it
sounds kind of like standard three is
kind of a lot for as a whole lot why
part it would but I mean like I've seen
fighting a little I've obviously I mean
you look at me you can tell I've never
known to myself but I mean like the NFL
is hard right and they're playing 16
games a year plus preseason practice why
why is it how how can it be that hard
that you can only do it a few times
you're adorable questions because the
sport of hurting people yeah football
hurting people is an accidental occur no
that's not true not if you're playing
online yeah but they're colliding into
each other but they're not doing
something specifically to knock you
unconscious or you break your liver all
right what are there's techniques that
you're doing that are trying to fuck a
guy's knee up I understand that but is
it that you need three four five six
months between to literally recuperate
from the pain even if you win is that
what it's about not just pain it's
punishment there's guys there that their
leg it takes Randy Couture he fought
this guy named Pedro his Oh Pedro his oh
is this Brazilian kickboxer that had the
most devastating leg kicks maybe in the
history of the sport he would slam his
shin into people's legs and you could
see them like visibly hobbled by it and
Randy's leg was so fucked up from their
first fight that he had to wait six
months before he was fully recovered six
months just from a guy kicking his leg
slamming his shin to the thigh his legs
were just chopped meat they were just
destroyed all the the tissue was broken
up there was blood inflamed his legs
were swollen up I mean it's horrific I
have to say you're reinforcing the
validity of my decision to become a
writer
it's not a fighter it's a land rear it's
exciting but not too exciting so why
okay so I don't mean to sound even more
naive than I've sounded now but like why
why is that why do you choose the life
of a fighter if it's that punishing well
they do it this is initially they do it
for self-improvement okay you get
involved for self-improvement they want
to learn how to defend themselves maybe
they want to learn some self-confidence
then they get excited about improving
and they get better at it and then they
achieve a level of expertise that makes
them the person in the gym that is above
the other new people that come in and
then you get to experience what it's
like to be an assassin you get to
strangle people all the time and then
you get to a point you like I want to
test myself and then you say I'm just
gonna take an amateur fight so then you
take an amateur fight and then you go
you know what I think I can do this for
a living and then you think about being
stuck in some fucking cubicle selling
insurance or maybe making Conor McGregor
money maybe I can get to the poor my I
know how to talk shit I think I can hurt
people I think I get in there makes them
and I don't have to fight three or four
times a year and I have a fucking boss
no one tells me what to do I can talk
shit and I can go out there and just do
something that I really enjoy doing
martial arts and just continue to be as
good at it as I can to be a professional
athlete it's attractive to us especially
to risk-seeking young males or females
that totally makes sense but let's say
it's you let's say you're 21 years old
you and you have the ability to do that
right you're discovering that you have
the ability to do that and then if you
could project that decision forward
let's say 30 years and say okay I'm
gonna go for this and I'm gonna and I'm
gonna factor in the probability that I'm
actually gonna make really good money or
have an amazing life changing or
life-affirming experience for 10 years
and then get out and do something else
versus do that insurance cubicle job in
other words you know it's kind of the
short the high probability high-risk bet
versus the longer steady one where you
might have more of a center of gravity
to have a family etc which would you
choose and why well first of all why
would only have two choices that seems
I'm only giving you a fight I stopped
fighting I was 21 because of I was
worried about head injuries right it was
too dangerous and when I was doing it
there was no money there wasn't a UFC
there if if you were making that
decision now though with the money now
do you think the decision would be
different there was no UFC then so there
was no but take 21 year old Joe yes I
would have fought yes sure 100% right I
definitely would I was excited by it
right it was it was scary I was
terrified but I also knew that I could
get good at it and then while I was
getting good at it it's it's a wild rush
it's a wild crazy rush because it's so
dangerous to do and the risk seeking
those kind of people that are risk
seekers the ones that do rock climbing
and BMX bike running and BASE jumping
that's a type of person there's whatever
whatever reason that's a type of person
and they gravitate towards those fights
and they gravitate towards martial arts
and some of them are the nicest people
I've ever met in my life
hmm there are some of the nicest kindest
most interesting introspective people
deep thinking people people that that
read a lot they can talk to you about
things that can be honest and personal
about things they have a really good
control of their ego because they're
getting trounced in training all the
time
everyone's getting humbled all the time
but you you're on the path of a
professional fighter and it's a it's a
very dangerous path and so there's an
incredible camaraderie between the
people that do it so there's they
understand that very few people have the
stones to do something like this or the
nuts though or that you know the chaos
in your brain or the insanity that lets
you risk your life like this versus take
that cube of yeah what for them it's
insanely attractive what's the long-term
health complications from MMA do we know
a lot about it yet I mean we're learning
a lot about football is any comments
point yeah football is like a car
accident these two giant dudes are
slamming into each other and I tend to
think that there's some impacts that
I've seen in football that it's not
recreate abble in an MMA ring because
they don't have momentum you know yeah
you're not running at each other but
that said there's plenty I mean I've
seen dudes get kicked into oblivion and
women get kicked unconscious multiple
times in one event and I've worked I
don't know how many events I've called
more than probably I have to say like
1,500 professional fights like easily
somewhere in that neighborhood
definitely more than a thousand
definitely without question that's being
real super conservative so out of those
you know how many people can had like
legitimate brain damage because of
fights a lot of them yeah they know
going in there that there's gonna be a
risk and they've got to know when to get
out and sometimes they don't and
sometimes friends and family have to
intervene and it's a scary thing to
watch someone slide down that road when
you know oh my God he's Chinee which
means you can't take a punch anymore
which means you're starting to develop
some severe damage from all the sparring
and the fighting and you got to know
when to stop and if and some people can
stop and they're fine and they're they
can live a long healthy life as long as
they stop in time yeah similar to boxing
very similar in that way in there
somewhere um very similar yeah I think
maybe boxing is a little bit more
damaged because all you're doing is
punching you're not kicking the legs
you're not taking each other down you're
not choking each other so the cumulation
yeah the accumulation of blows to your
head might you might be able to argue
that they get more
but but then there's a guy like Floyd
Mayweather who doesn't get hit at all
yeah he's so good at not being hit he's
probably been hit less in his entire
boxing career of fifty victories in zero
defeats than most MMA fighters in like
in their entire light like tenfold yeah
they think you know ten times we on him
easily so imagine that I came down from
Mars and I look at you know human
civilization I think you know this makes
sense this makes sense this makes sense
this one doesn't make any sense
well I was gonna use fights as an
example what about the Coliseum I mean
it's always been a part of humans right
we've been interested in people beating
the shit out of each other since the
beginning of time yeah because it scares
us so it's entertaining to watch other
people do it that's why we want to watch
a bar fight I don't want to be in a bar
fight you know a lot of you want to be
in a bar fight right but what the fuck
is this really happening so a lot of the
people who have turned against football
the last let's say five or ten years
fueled by the CTE which is obviously a
legitimate thing we don't really know
the magnitude and scope yet but a lot of
people who've turned against it do it
for a kind of moral argument that I
don't want to support an endeavor where
people are hurting each other period
right how do you feel about that I mean
should there's a libertarian argument to
say what are you talking about people
can do whatever they want they can do
drugs they can go bungee jumping they
can work stock trading which is
stressful you know can you can do
whatever you want so where do you lie on
that well I think first of all they're
right and you are doing something that's
definitely gonna harm you however I feel
like if you want to do something that
you enjoy doing that's going to take
some time out of your life that's finite
anyway who the fuck am I to tell you you
can't do that right am I gonna tell
where am I going to draw the line am I
gonna say no gymnastics yeah like we're
managing other one you know you know
soccer causes tremendous amount of CTE
do you know that yeah losing the ball
crosses sub-concussive trauma yeah just
heading the ball causes a lot of scene I
know a lot of youth leagues now are
starting to cut out head yeah which i
think is probably a pretty good it's a
very good you should probably eliminate
it totally it often it's not the ball
it's the collision with you dying often
yeah yeah but they think heading has a
huge infant no know what I'm saying when
you're going up for headers you're often
you're knocking heads you're not gonna
shoulder to a head and elbow and
around on a field india clip you're
gonna collide with each other where do
you stand on paying for organs but let's
keep going with this because we didn't
even touch the surface of this I'm in
favor of people doing what they want to
do with their life if you choose to do
something with your life away are we
gonna take away race car driving because
that's one of the scariest goddamn
things a person could do not as much
anymore
oh no yeah but you know what this is I
think fucked up do you see that recent
crash did but the fact that we remember
that so well one reason is because there
have been so few since Earnhardt died
back in whatever that was 2000 listen I
had Dale Earnhardt jr. on his podcast
and he want in depth about brain damage
that he's gotten from multiple crashes
he talked about the severe impact of the
concussions he talked about the
difficulty coming back and the different
modalities a different medical
treatments that he's had to have I
that's Dale Earnhardt jr. this is after
his dad is gone right
this guy talked like really extensively
on this podcast about his personal
struggle with brain damage that he's
received from car accidents yeah it's a
fucking scary way to make a living yeah
arguably more scary than fighting
because there are guys like Mighty Mouse
Demetrios Mighty Mouse Johnson who's
like this Elite MMA fighter that barely
gets touched there's guys like him that
don't take any damage and then there's
guys who are elite NASCAR drivers who
wind up these crazy collisions and go
sent through the air and they wind up in
the hospital all fucked up the impact
just the impact even if you're in a cage
just your brain rattling around inside
your head fucks you up and we're letting
people do that and I don't think we
should stop I think we should let people
do whatever they want if they want to do
they want to take a tightrope walk
across the Grand Canyon and film it on
YouTube
I can't I'm not the guy unless it's over
private land or public land and with
there's a law against using it who are
we to tell people they can't rock climb
who are we to tell people they can't ski
where do we draw the line yeah where do
you decide a person can't do a thing I
don't know you make a good argument I
don't think there's a bad argument with
what you're saying though and saying
that it does cause us damage to people
you're right by the way I'm a I love the
NFL I would
cry if it went away on the other hand
and I and I know a few NFL will now
former NFL players one of whom stopped
playing in his fifth year way earlier
than had to because he was worried about
CTE but also he was getting a PhD in
math from MIT at the same time so he had
a plan he had an alternative but then
there's another guy in combination he's
anime you would you would you should
have him on your show John Herschel his
name is you are as CHEO okay we'll talk
about a fascinating guy um there's
another guy Dominique Foxworth both
these guys happened to play for the
Ravens which happens to be the team I
hate most but I've gotten to be friendly
with them Dominique Ross worth had a
great money-making career because he
kind of got his big contract and is
whatever fourth fifth year well took out
insurance on it then got hurt and there
and really never played again so he
banked enough money after that he went
and got an MBA from Harvard because he's
a bright and interesting and ambitious
guy he will never let his son play
football it's like you hear these
stories about the guys who've done it
who've made a life you know out of it
and it just really makes me think about
you're right everybody should have the
right to do anything for their own
livelihood or for their own excitement
right on the other hand like if we had
the Coliseum today per se like what we
have is a modern version the Coliseum if
we had the Coliseum per se fighting the
Tigers slaves getting thrown in to fight
the Tigers we don't like that it's like
the line things are repugnant until
they're not and it's hard to predict
where that line is a lot of things that
used to be not repugnant slavery fine
the whole world if you had the ability
to do it right and then get go straight
back to the Coliseum that's the same
thing it's like we have a line and
whatever the cultural line is especially
depending upon how many people died
around us how much plague and murder and
how much you know how much you're
dealing with war that line moves yeah
yeah right now people find it repugnant
to use the plastic shopping bag so good
and that's a dangerous argument if if
it's not a good decision right because
if you can feel like oh we stopped using
plastic shopping bags therefore this is
called moral licensing
i-i licensed my because i've made it one
good moral decision now i can license
myself to do other stuff so i read on
paper right like if you had a brain
every time you go to the supermarket you
have to bring a reusable bag right it's
great on paper until you don't have a
reusable bag and so then ya hyper bag
and then it rains then your groceries
fall in the street I mean that's the
extreme no but these are I mean the
problem is plastic bags if you look at
the menace to the environment over all
plastic bags are pretty pretty small
part the danger is when people feel that
they've contributed by doing something
small and then stop thinking about
bigger better things to do that's it's
interesting too that we just accept an
inevitable amount of litter yeah it's
not because it's really a garbage
disposal issue yeah right it's true if
we have as how hard is it I know it's
it's interesting because sometimes
sometimes there's accidents right things
fall off things blow down the street you
can't get to them but there's a lot of
that a lot of it is just a soullessness
I agree I happen to play golf which I'm
embarrassed about cuz like the area I
know I grew up is the kind of person
that looked at golfers like that's not
my club when did you start like eight
ten years ago I love it I absolutely
love it it's also nice because you're
outdoors for a long time you're often
alone for a long time and another thing
I really like about it is I get to be
around other people often men in a way
that you don't get to be around other
men in that way you know what I mean
it's like it's it's good for the it's
good for the soul you know in a way yeah
and I just like the competition it's a
really hard game so I like trying to get
better at it but um the thing that
amazes me is how much crap there is how
much garbage there is on a golf course
and I'm like thinking it'll blow out of
your bag and I'm just like I don't know
I like nature Allah I don't like the
idea of like candy wrappers all over so
then I write I extrapolate and think
bigger like you do plastic bags should
it be that hard
to take it home use it maybe once or
twice again and then throw it away and I
understand that they're less you know
recyclable but you know we have a lot of
landfill space but even landfill space
that's where a lot of it goes you've
seen landfill space with things are
flying around the wind it's just like
goddammit
we it's hard to contain all of our
garbage we produce so much crap
it's true although much less per person
weight weight wise than we did 50-100
years ago that's mostly this garbage
used to be heavier well you speak rate
technological improvements that are
difficult to see while you're in the
moment like if you go back and look at
photos of Los Angeles in the 60s and you
see the the pollution it was insane it
was literally like there was a fire yeah
right and now it's gotten a lot better
it still sucks but it's gotten a lot of
questions I wouldn't have gotten a lot
better without let's say relation yeah
we didn't Easter you've done it on the
town no chance no they would accept it
Clean Air Act which president don't I
don't Nixon oh wow that's crazy
go to Mexico go to Mexico City wild yeah
like where we're flying in I was like
holy shit that's real like crazy
pollution yeah I took photos of them put
it on Instagram like this is wild yeah
you've been to China no never been shot
bring your bring your face mom sure yeah
yeah no I've seen videos it's um I'm
hoping the technology catches up to our
pollution at the same time we're
emitting our situation by trying to be
better with recycling but I'm hoping
that someone figures out some giant
building size filter some huge thing
they put in this middle of every city
and it sucks all the carbon it just
seems like they're ridiculous there are
so particulate pollution has gotten so
much better in fact
one wrinkle of climate change and global
warming is that the particulate the soot
in the atmosphere in the 60 50 60s and
70s was apparently what kept things a
little bit cooler because they're
refracted it sunlight in here thankful
that's so so the irony is you clean up
the air and you allow more warming
exactly anyway there's a global warming
is a very complicated issue yeah this is
another example where when people reduce
it to the headlines and then divide
people into tribes it's exactly the
opposite of what you want perfect
example because it's clearly a right
versus left thing to in some people's
circles if you're on the right you're
supposed to say it's exaggerated it's a
hoax it's this it's that's not my
concern my concern is jobs my concern is
like UV repeat the talking points and if
it's on the Left it's how dare you
it's great a third I think the biggest
that was a that was not the best
creditor that was actually now that I
know it's her it was not a bad imitation
I think one of Obama's biggest mistakes
he plainly wanted to address climate
change global warming but he did it in a
kind of standard left Democrat way by
calling a global warming by saying that
there were bad actors which is true the
thing that astonishes me that Democrats
haven't done is talk about it in a
language that every Republican every
conservative every hunter Fisher would
respond to which is pollution which is
what it is by the right right why why it
became a conversation about a much
bigger much more abstract much more
difficult to understand and act on
problem is strange to me because you
know humankind comes together we came to
look polio vaccine
it wasn't like everybody was working on
it but there were enough people
concerned about it and then you had a
president who said hey March of Dimes
let's have everybody raise money come up
with a vaccine and then interestingly
you know Salk with the vaccine this is
just interesting about the way medicine
works today he basically said no no I
don't want a patent I don't want to own
this patent he could have become a
billionaire right you know this was this
is was this is the way we've have
thought in our past as humans about
solving big problems we seem to have
gotten away from that a little bit and I
think that's where to me that tribalism
is the most dangerous it's not about the
political charades I don't care about
that I don't think that's particularly
damaging where I think it's damaging is
by dividing yourself into these tribes
that are so exclusive and they have
these purity tests what we're doing is
we're actually diminishing our
collective ability to come together to
solve problems the good news is there's
a million people out there at academic
institutions and garages groups of one
and two people who are working on
solutions that are that keep coming you
know human humans and cool species what
I'm trying to say yeah we really are
yeah yeah and I think it's interesting
but Jonas Salk when he did create that
vaccine the world was a different place
and there wasn't this pharmaceutical
industry that we have today
that's you know has such a strong
ability to influence the way people look
at things through advertisements and
just through the way the influence
politicians we're is it's a different
world so to compare the bounty that was
awaiting Jonas Salk for coming up with
the polio vaccine it's just a different
word true the world's different didn't
he like wasn't there some controversy
that he didn't give credit to the other
people that helped him with the facts
yes there was and I don't okay with
money but not good with given people I
hadn't read this in a long time so I
can't I can't speak to it but but even
like I've been do you like Richard
Fineman you know Richard Hyndman so so
you know when he talks about I love
hearing him talk about when he was
drafted to work on the Manhattan Project
and you think about it America was it
was an existential fear yeah legitimate
right sure I mean we wound up using it
we didn't use it on us we did in DES and
and when you hear Fineman talk about all
the complication of that we have an
enormous scientific challenge we have an
enormous competition against the Germans
we're trying to do the same thing and
then even if we win then we have another
whole challenge which is the moral
challenge but but there's a way of
thinking about those things and again
what measuring the costs and benefits at
people who would might disagree
aggressively and they did about the
Manhattan Project can sit down and say
okay here's here's what we're gonna do
what's what's the lesser of the two
evils and I feel like right now I don't
know it's as as much progress as we've
had I feel we've gotten worse at looking
at the lesser of two evils that looking
at weighing costs and benefits well what
is the lesser of two evils in that
regard is it drop the bombs and stop the
war or is the lesser of two evils never
drop the bomb and stop the war later
yeah I mean look there's a million books
been written about this mmm I could make
an argument in in either case I mean
Japan we were very very scared of Japan
Japan had shown a lot of ability to
punish the United States even though
Germany was ow America still felt very
fragile so I I totally get the argument
that it was meant to be you know I get
it - yeah on the other hand
you're picking some pretty big cities to
drop it on and you're picking two so you
know killing mostly civilians yeah yeah
so it's hard to imagine that decision
would be made today but as you just said
about you know polio vaccine different
different case but roughly same time
Europe you know it's very hard to
project your morals on two you know
fifty years from now we may have a very
different view about MMA for instance
it's very hard to project it well that I
think that's far more intense and
extreme than MMA we were talking about
nuking people literally out of existence
but I think that just the fact that
these brilliant scientists were forced
into that moral dilemma like one of my
favorite videos online it's Oppenheimer
when he's discussing what he said when
the first atomic bomb was detonated and
he quoted the bhagavad-gita and he said
I am become death destroyer of worlds
and it's just to say that to see have
you seen it the video um please let me
play this for you
play play Oppenheimer right after when
describing what it was like because it's
so eerie because here you have one of
the most brilliant scientists ever who
completed this fantastic project yeah
the manhattan project created bombs that
literally were nuclear weapons never
happened before in all of human history
as far as we know and here the guy that
did it that knew that knew that that was
going to be the death of untold amounts
of people listen to this listen to what
says two people laughed
few people cried most people were silent
I remembered the line from the Hindu
scripture the bhagavad-gita Vishnu is
trying to persuade the prince that he
should do his duty and to impress him
takes on his multi-armed form and says
now I am become death the destroyer of
worlds
I suppose we all thought that one way or
another
doom imagine being that guy I mean
here's the guy first of all was quoting
the bhagavad-gita in 1945 little ahead
of his spring pretty incredible or 40 it
was 46 one of the when did they first
detonate 40 the tests where I think 44
and Hiroshima and Nagasaki 45 correct
somewhere in that range
being this guy who you know he's just a
brilliant scientist he's not supposed to
be the guy who destroys a half a million
people in one moment one brief flash of
light and vaporizes a half a million
people he he went to this school in New
York City called the ethical culture
Fieldston school which is where my kids
went so Oppenheimer is kind of a patron
saint for having the brains to do
something almost unimaginable and having
the ethics encouraged to know that what
he'd done was unacceptable on some
levels you know on the other hand but
look if we're talking about costs and
benefits let's think about nuclear power
nuclear bombs as a deterrent against
others down the road right so you have
to say killed a lot of people how many
lives did it save impossible to say
sound like a Republican sir I know I
know but I mean no to talk about then
let's also talk about nuclear power
which was the byproduct of this right
and there are those who could argue and
I would probably aid this argument to
say that if the US had continued on the
path of nuclear power in the 70s rather
than totally flipping out after well
after Three Mile Island then later
Chernobyl which was a much worse
accident at Three Mile Island if if that
had continued what we'd have now is
probably much much much cleaner cheaper
safer nuclear fuel and instead what
happened because we basically stopped
building nuclear plants instead for the
next 40 years we burnt
crapload of coal that's been terrible
for the environment for lives a lot of
lives lost in mining coal but then the
pollution and so on so you know actions
have consequences what seems to be all
benefit often has a lot of costs and
life is complicated but I think the more
wood that we can measure and weigh
things sensibly the less screaming there
is I just you know I love changing my
mind I love hearing somebody make an
argument that makes me say oh you know
the way I thought about that before I
see why I thought it I don't feel like a
fool for having thought it but Wow now
that now that you've laid out some facts
and laid out some counterfactuals I
appreciate the opportunity to change my
mind I enjoy that I don't you well I
think we're so often married to our
ideas like our ideas are a part of us
and we're losing if our ideas that we've
been discussing or incorrect if our
assumptions were incorrect it's a value
judgment against us right you know I
think the nuclear thing is interesting
because I think one of the problems with
what happened was the shitty design of
like Fukushima where they can't shut it
off it's freak people out rightly so and
it's in there it's built in a bad spot
it's like a little spa yeah and the
back-up plan sucked everything's wrong
and now they have this nuclear hot spot
that they're you know it's gonna be like
that for a hundred thousand years right
there's a better way and they never had
a chance to find that better way right
because they've had a better way for
everything else and the later ones the
ones that they're operational now are
far better than the Fukushima one and
they could have gotten
wait-wait-wait-wait-wait better and that
is it's one of those things that doesn't
seem like it makes sense like women
nuclear is clean right it's fucking
really clean it's really clean if it's
done right and if they allowed them to
innovate over those 40 years we would
have got to someplace where it's like
super efficient just like everything
else if you look at a 1970 car yeah
right and then you look at a car from
2020 how about a Tesla zero emissions
right like maybe they would figure out
how to really knock it down I mean
something there are still a lot of
people working on next next next next
generation nuclear power including Bill
Gates is involved in and including some
that are working with using as fuel
what's called spent fuel in a
traditional nuclear act it takes care of
two big problems at once right right
right so look
yeah yeah reason like be cheerful
Bunker's filled with shit that's
eventually gonna crack through the
bunker and toxify everything around it
maybe or you could also theoretically
use that as literally as fuel yeah so
you know that have you seen the thing
where they've discovered bacteria in
Fukushima that's adapting to eating
nuclear waste no that's interesting yeah
I'm pretty sure that's Fukushima pull
that up bacteria that eats nuclear waste
together they're discovering bacteria
that life is so sneaky
life just finds a way like those vents
those volcanic vents right at the bottom
of the ocean you like what are you doing
here
this sounds like the way you know CRISPR
you know Chris Chris do you know this
was discovered it was found the
mechanism for that was basically these
bacteria that we're living in some
deeply inhospitable place like this
radiation eating bacteria could make
nuclear waste safer all right yeah where
do we buy those like a Walmart you get
what was the date you just highlight
there James 2017 oh I think that's the
different one but that's that's probably
something they've been talking about but
I think there was something recently
where they discovered some bacteria that
was eating radiation all right I got a
question for you Joe Joe Rogan let's say
that we collectively decide that protein
is a really important intake for most
humans but that some people either don't
want to eat meat or they find that meat
is too resource intensive etc etc but
they also don't want to eat the kind of
processed fake meat which is you know
processed food etc and let's say that we
decide that one of the best most
available sources of protein if you
develop it well as insects mm-hmm okay
but that most people find that
disgusting what do you do to make people
less disgusted by something they find
disgusting well with all these things I
think it's very important to give people
the opportunity to choose for themselves
right especially with things they've
been doing forever like eating meat
people are terrified is someone coming
along and legislating that they can't
eat meat and then they disagree with
this agree with this argument they have
an argument that life eats life and that
we've been doing this for thousands of
years and that's why we became human in
the first place and that Agriculture's
allowed us to have these cities and yeah
it's cruel to these animals but you
what you can do it ethically and you can
do it morally and it's not like they're
gonna live forever anyway right so you
can have that argument right but then
there's a people that don't want to eat
bugs well then don't eat bugs right but
here's what if I hold on here's a thing
for the people that do want to eat bug
it's a good source of protein yeah and
ethically we don't feel as bad about
killing bugs okay really doubt we said
an ashram once and I was actually I had
a friend that was renting a place that
the ashram had for rent so I'm hanging
out with this lady who's a monk I guess
I don't know how you would call her but
she ran the ashram very nice lady but
she had bug spray and I go why a bug
spray she goes we have an ant problem
there either getting into the garbage I
go whoa I go do you understand what
you're saying
I go we're at an ashram and you're
fucking spraying death from the sky on
these little life-forms like imagine if
she was running around killing kittens
with a hammer right we would go no
fucking way she'll I got this shit
everywhere there the piston on my
garbage I got to kill these fucking
kittens right well to a Buddhist right
spraying ants with bug spray should be
the same as killing a fucking what an
arbitrary decision right the kids making
very arbitrary see many vegans slap
mosquitoes right you don't just let him
eat you there's there's a thing where we
decide that an animal is not as valuable
and big furry animals are the most
valuable animals you know one of the
horrible truths about mono crop
agriculture and there's a video that a
friend of mine put up on his Instagram
page the other day about farmers this
farmer was talking about like when I
grow up acardo's you have to understand
like you think you're getting this
organic avocado and nothing else and I
goes I have to kill thousands of Gophers
thousands of them yeah he goes I'm gonna
kill untold numbers of bugs he goes I'm
spraying all this organic pesticide down
that's gonna kill weeds he goes I'm
fucking up the ecosystem I'm turning up
the land
I'm displacing all these animals all the
places that I'm putting things on there
should be wildlife I'm moving I'm
heading getting ridden off I'm fuckin up
this system and like that's a
uncomfortable truth that if you even
want to buy Lettuce which is the most
harmless thing like oh I just plucked
that head and you know I'll be fine
no one's getting hurt no one's dying but
they are because mono crop agriculture
devastating and Inlet
you are growing an organic garden which
I firmly encourage people to do and I
think that would be like one of the best
solutions for community although a one
argument against it takes a lot more
land because the yield is so much lower
yeah yeah it takes the Orlan but I'm not
talking about for the entire city I'm
saying like if we had blocks right like
say if there was a block of people right
and in that block there's one patch that
everybody tended to do together right
there was a community cuz my parents
actually my parents are hippies and when
I was a kid in San Francisco they
actually were part of this co-op and we
would go there and if I was interested
when I was seven I didn't know that that
was unusual right and we would go there
and as a part of this university project
that my dad was involved in and they're
growing all these crops and I'm like oh
this is kind of cool like you just grow
in and it was in San Francisco's it was
in the city itself had this area where
we would go and it was all fenced in and
people would grow tomatoes and different
different vegetables and stuff and
they'd learn how to grow and it was
classes on composting and stuff like
that people are composting their organic
wastes and they would reuse it and that
is something that could be done inside
communities I mean we could it doesn't
have to be that we have these giant
swaths of land where nobody grows it you
just take Central Park for example no an
amazing Park I'm not saying somewhere
near there I'm not saying grow veggies
there but take it as an example of
everything doesn't me have to be
hardscaped right yeah Central Park is
this beautiful part of New York City
because it's this lush green patch in
the middle of this urban sprawl so you
have this urban city around it and then
it's really cool to be able to go
through that and to see the Ducks and
you know does that sit by a tree and
there's one duck in Central Park now
that got like a plastic bottle ring
stuck around its beak it's become a duck
cause celeb have you eaten have you ever
eaten insects like well yes whatever
hosted fear factors I don't think
there's such as roaches do gross people
out more yeah but don't others is it
because they're garbage eaters preserved
because they've near humans that's the
problem yes that's the ones that we hate
you do have everything you have to
appreciate their indestructibility
though it's unbelievable yeah I mean if
you were in if I were an engineer I
think the road should be my
like inspiration it's a special animal I
mean it really is a special little
creature it's figured out a way to live
in every single urban environment yeah
to live inside your walls inside your
house and exist in your garbage is the
rat essentially the roach equivalent or
are all rodents clear because rats have
technically carried things that have
killed millions of people don't
squirrels as well though now not real
gum cuz they're herbivores they're
they're not involved in those tight-knit
groups where they spread diseases and I
mean they could technically get fleas
that could carry plagues and I'm sure
they have you know they did that's where
a lot of people used to get diseases
yeah alright they'd get it Philly from a
rat and they're right that was the
plague right and they blamed it on the
rats but it was really the bugs and I
think that rats I mean if you ever seen
the Netflix documentary no I got a long
list from you got this look here's a lot
of this number what to call and scrub
rats
all right it's a Netflix documentary it
is amazing did they deal with this story
I've read about years ago and I think
this was insight on probably years and
years ago maybe that's that might not be
right about when you know there's a rat
infestation this has happened throughout
history it's happened in many places I
know what happened in in South Africa
not long ago either where the city will
call for like a bounty say you kill the
rat you people start breeding and
growing extra rats is that in the film
no it's not but I know that still of
stories of incentives gone wrong because
we do it you know isn't sunrise
something yeah boys Oh gross yeah would
you eat a rat
yeah for sure mm-hmm have you specially
if I was hungry no rain it's just me
yeah no once you cook it and you put
some seasoning on it I bet I'm afraid of
a - coyote and what's your meat
situation right now you're eating you're
still eating mostly meat yes yeah mostly
wild games yeah mostly what I eat is elk
it's stuff that you've hunted yourself
yeah yeah I just but I eat beef steak -
right but I've been on this diet for the
last like a couple months that's right
basically just me what cut L see you
eating besides me that's it no fruit no
vegetables so what's that feel like just
uh this is what's weird about it first
of all it's weird is your energy levels
that you have like without the
carbohydrate roller coaster ride
the spike of the insulin and the sugar
and the the body processing it it's
amazing it's just steadier you're saying
you don't get the crash I did hear you
talking about though feeling like you
are more angry or aggressive in some
ways you still feel harshly joking
around about that but I was saying that
you almost like have to work out more -
I think it's just energy I think my body
not having to process a large amount of
carbohydrates particularly not
vegetables vegetables seem pretty easy
but they they do like if I eat a lot of
vegetables I do get a lot of gas thanks
Sharon don't yeah yeah but then
everybody gets you not all vegetables
some vegetables are super gassy the
Jerusalem artichoke is I believe the
gaseous veg well it's really dependent
upon your personal digestion such a yeah
for sure I mean for people that are your
gut biome sort of dick writes what you
what's what happens and since we're on
the topic what happens to be more
gaseous vegetable oh I don't know it's
when I combine a bunch of them together
I'm sure it's usually when you combine
protein and vegetables together that you
get the worst reaction yeah but the
point is there's none of that with just
me it's so what's your duty breakfast
turn yeah what ends it depends on the
day today I did what you have today I
had six eggs and I had four pieces of
bacon okay let's breakfast lunch then I
haven't eaten anything since okay we
should say we're p.m. local time yeah I
had work out and I hung out my dog went
for a walk with him rained and came here
due to podcast right and you're gonna
again today yeah what do you have I'll
eat meat right just but just to play to
meet then yeah yeah does it get boring
because I love me but I can't imagine
that it wouldn't get a little it does
not it took the it gets boring if you
think it's boring but it is delicious
food if you have it every day you get
bored because you have too much
delicious food so I think it's really a
perspective issue and it's also the
health benefits that I've found like
just the the way I feel the energy level
and mental clarity it's very interesting
like there's something going on with
mental the struggle that you have
thinking about things when after right
after you have a big meal you know that
mashed potatoes and pasta
I'm so dumb I'm like 30 IQ points dumber
for sure that seems to not be an issue
when you are on this steady diet of just
eating animal foods butene because your
body your body creates its own glucose
through gluco genesis where it breaks
down the protein and creates glucose and
as long as you get enough fat that's
what's really critical you can get to
lean whether the meat is to lean you
don't have enough fats your body doesn't
have fat to process and that screws with
you yeah now what about the things that
are in vegetables that are not in me
nutritionally are the question are they
significant enough to either take
supplements or to worry about what do
you do that's a good question I take
multivitamins and take an athlete's pure
pack that's like us a bag a little
baggie filled with multivitamins then I
take glucosamine and chondroitin I take
a bunch of other different things fish
oil I take quite a few supplements and
again I'm not telling people to live
this way don't do it what does an all
meat diet do - your stool if you don't
mind me asking um it reduces it mm-hmm
yeah because mostly you're using if you
eat eggs and meat you're breaking it
down your body uses a lot of it there's
no fiber right and because there's no
fiber which is probably the biggest
argument against the diet yeah when you
look at research for the benefits of
fiber brain the research is weird right
because it's epidemiological it's all
like how much vegetables do you eat how
many instances of colon cancer let's
quarrel it what's why all that stuff is
very very very reliable yeah it's very
weird so there's a bunch of doctors that
are currently like and I use the term in
air quotes that are promoting the
carnivore diet okay and seeing positive
results with it and getting a bunch of
other people that achieve positive
results the big one is autoimmune issues
people that have severe skin issues
right eczema is a big one that seems to
be cured with an elimination diet which
is essentially what a carnivore diet is
right if you eliminate all those plants
and all those carbs yeah I mean maybe
the plants are fine but maybe it's the
sugar and maybe by just eating me and
your body is one thing to concentrate on
it can relax a certain amount of the
inflammation that you're getting heads
as brett has there ever been a
population that's been studied at least
quasi scientifically that's had a mostly
meat diet for a long time Inuit yeah and
and what do we notice I Inuit what do we
know about cancer longevity and so on I
don't know it's good question
Inuit apparently now suffer and one of
the reasons why they suffer is the
introduction of alcohol and tobacco and
you know cigarettes yeah yeah and also
you know just Western life the foods
change so you look at those communities
it's not the same community as the ones
that were just eating seal and whale
blubber and eating whatever they can get
ahold of the Masai lived for a long time
on milk and meat and blood and they were
very healthy milk from what animal from
cows okay they're they're cattle herders
let me ask you this let's say that we
just let's say you and I run like
America for just a couple days and uh
and we decide you know what of all the
things that people do that's not good
for them that we feel is a good idea to
get rid of right especially if we're
going to be having a little bit more
socialized medicine right so you're
paying my taxes on of all the things
that we should maybe you know ban would
be sugar right because like there
doesn't seem to be that much nutritional
benefit to sugar people like it but it's
demonstrably bad on a lot of levels how
would you do that let me ask you this
why the inclination always to ban thing
no I'm not I always go to the extreme
just to show so that it was always ban
the word banned the food ban the the
action it is a sport because we're not
very good at regulating honestly because
we kind of vacillate between an all
embrace and I hate look I think the best
example of how bad we are this is with
vaping
it's like vaping in this country was
handled very poorly yes there were the
deaths which were mostly as I understand
it black-market THC pods you're right
Perry just ran over this entire thing
okay ecig arrests are they might get you
addicted to nicotine which may be a bad
thing although nicotine per se not a bad
thing in moderation in fact it's used
clinically people have been using it
it's a new trick yeah yeah okay but the
UK did something very different with
e-cigarettes when they saw people 10 12
years ago starting to use them they said
Oh people want this we can either say no
you can't have it we'll make it illegal
in which case there will be a black
market and they'll get stuff that's
probably not so well made or we can try
to deal with it in a responsible
sensible way and what they did is they
allowed e-cigarettes with about 20% as
much nicotine as are in the unit's the
United States so what you don't have in
the UK is a bunch of teenagers who are
now addicted to nicotine who never would
have been smokers you also don't have a
whole bunch of counterfeit THC pods in
the UK where people are dying so to me
banning is almost never the solution you
look at prohibition
I mean prohibition is actually they're
wrong but do you understand the hustle
what would happen behind the whole THC
ban this is this is why it's Yves aping
Bailey excuse me the the vaping ban
after they peak the people died from the
THC they knew that those things had
nothing to do with it they started
blazing cigarette seabright they start
blaming is because they were trying to
introduce a tobacco based ISA Guerette
right and it was all about the company
that bought out the Joule Joule
cigarette which was a very popular one
right in order to kill it they were just
trying to kill the business and then
they passed this they're trying to pass
this rather legislation against flavored
tobacco right all they're trying to do
was clear the room for their business
their business being and Adam Curie laid
it out brilliantly it's it's shocking
how well it worked in he said it's
basically the tobacco version of who
killed the electric car yeah it's a
sneaky backroom deal and they hoodwinked
people and next you know you're oh I
don't want the kids to be smoking dreary
vapor right and really they're just
clearing the way for this tobacco
flavored bullshit because it's made with
tobacco right this is the only stuff you
can have this is yours
it's like doctors smoke camels it's
really like those goddamn commercially
aware yeah that's what's going on so
it's really just a sneaky business move
and we're all like I don't get it like
how the fuck are they gonna ban vaping
with cigarettes are still legal you're
talking about something that kills
500,000 people every year in this
country alone they die of premature
death due to tobacco use and you're not
gonna be on that be gonna ban that
flavored smoke that didn't even have
anything to do with the 10 people that
died from the nicotine or the the tip
team
would say vitamin e oil you're also
gonna drive a lot of smokers who are
trying to quit smoking back to cigarette
that's right that's the osseous stuff
sucks yeah yeah people are mad I can't
even have strawberry anymore I'll join
the strawberry right and a lot of
smokers who take up vaping to stop
smoking they specifically don't want
tobacco free yeah it's too reminiscent
of the cigarette so you just want that
hit were you ever know yeah just by
never had any nicotine never Oh nicotine
is an interesting drug oh I've had it
I've had cigarettes when I've had a
cigarette with my friend Tony
Hinchcliffe a couple of times before
shows yeah and Dave Chappelle smokes and
that when I do shows with him I'll steal
one of his cigarettes and if you don't
smoke one cigarette I'll get you pretty
good right you don't just get high you
get like like race jittery no no it's
like your brains firing like pow it's
one of the things that Stephen King said
about quitting that really bothered him
was it was great that he cleaned up the
habit and stopped doing it but the the
firing of the synapses like he misses
that when I wrote my first book I was a
smoker not a heavy smoker but I smoked
and I was living in the middle of the
Catskill Mountains beautiful place by
myself middle of the woods whose grades
from man total as a romantic writer
store it was romantic if there had been
someone else with Nicole it's a romantic
writer store is great I love the
Catskills by herself even better the
house I bought even though I didn't know
when I bought it it used to be owned by
this guy named Anton Otto Fischer who
was a painter and an illustrator he was
German ran away from home had an abusive
father this was in the 1910s or
something ran away from home in Germany
became a sailor talked his way onto a
ship got to America I think fought for
America in World War one on a ship and
then he became like the preeminent
maritime painter in the US and the in
the decades maybe between the two wars
and maybe after he then got married
lived in New York and had a kid who was
had what do you call it not tuberculosis
not emphysema what's the old one where
you need to get the clean air fresh air
you know they'd send people away no it's
something we would know it's it's a
respiratory saying okay right and the
catskills had this clean clean air so
they went there he built this
house and it had he because he was a
painter but also because he spent so
much of his life on ships he built this
studio his painting studio that looked
like a little ship with this great
window looking out over the Catskill
Mountains that's the house I bought to
write my first book it was unbelievably
I was so I could focus for like 14 hours
a day 16 hours a day writing but the
reason I was able to focus so well was
because of cigarettes I'd write for
about 28 29 minutes total focus go
outside smoke the nicotine which is
reset all the focus it was an
unbelievable drug but it's a terrible
delivery system I've heard someone
recently say I heard a kind of reluctant
Trump supporter say the same thing about
Trump that a lot of the things he's
doing policy-wise especially foreign
policy or economic policy really they
like it so they say he's like he's like
a cigarette like the drug is good the
delivery system is absolutely terrible
now how is the vaping did you switch
with never but no I quit smoking a long
time ago although I quit you know it's
interesting I wrote in my first book my
family memoir about the Jewish Catholic
family I wrote in there not that I was a
smoker but that there's one instance
where I stepped outside with my brother
after this intense moment and we had a
cigarette and a few years later the book
had been published I was buying for the
fruit I was now newly married and I know
that you're supposed to buy life
insurance and so I got this insurance
broker and he knew my name he said oh I
read your book I said oh that's that's
great glad to hear and then we started
to price out the insurance and he said
you know what do you do are you a smoker
I said no not a smoker because I'd quit
a few years earlier and then he called
me back and he said you know I read your
book were you stepped outside to have a
cigarette with your brother all of a
sudden I got the smoking rate for life
insurance even though you quit yeah even
though I quit because you used to smoke
yeah oh yeah oh so you smoked at all
well that's not what I thought he asked
me to are you a smoker I said no cuz I'd
quit but anyway Dave isn't there like
scientifically like this there's a
certain time window where your lungs of
they also say so so this message I would
say is really serious for anybody even
if you've been smoking 40 years they say
if you quit your lungs can actually
recover it greatly so it's worth it yeah
smoking is I hate to say it I think
smoking is a terrible idea it's a
terrible idea there's no answer on the
other hand this vaping replaced the feet
like Adam curry switched to vaping yeah
this crazy contraption one of those guys
is in there really complicated you know
Garage remote control looking vamping
things that he's into those things and
you know he quit and that's how he quit
so the best science at the moment says
that vaping is almost certainly much
better than smoking yeah because they
don't know all the chemicals and all the
damage potential damage that vaping may
or may not do but they do know the
damage it's cigarette combust
combustible cigarettes and all the
chemicals there are demonstrably pretty
bad yeah so even though like you said we
were told doctors do it this is the best
we were told the same thing about sugar
sugar gives you a great boost and so on
it's awful but again my take is if you
want to smoke go ahead well but wait a
minute I live in a finite life oh wait a
minute let's say now we are talking
about who pays right so this is gets
back to the externality thing if you
smoke and I'm paying for your health
insurance as the tax payer don't I get
to have a say it's a very good question
and how far should we extend that
because if you're fat should I have to
pay right you keep eating why do you
keep eating right okay if you if you
don't sleep well and you're prone to
heart attacks so am I supposed to pay
right now you sleep more you know
there's there's so many variables are
you a guy who rock climbs well what have
you fallen break your leg I have to
fucking pay for that there's a lot of
variables so you got to wonder about
when you you start breaking down how
much how much assistance people get
based on their life choices but the way
to do that is to is to price it and this
is where economists are really useful
you know even though they sit down for
the individual and punish them for their
behavior not punish them tax them
charging them right if I want to be a
rock climber and a smoker and and
everything but I get free free health
care then there should probably be a
premium or I should probably pay into a
little fund that is a free if there's a
premium well it's never look health care
is not never free right
no no even in Scandinavia it's not for
its free to the user at point of
purchase yes but no it's expensive and
that's what's hard na VIU's done well
we're talking about the user that right
we're talking about the user having to
pay a premium but you're right you're
already paying your taxes let's say
you're paying twenty percent total tax
whatever that goes into the healthcare
but then additionally right you
theoretically know this can be hard to
regulate behavior because again where do
we draw the line it would about BMX
riding what about people would do this
and that there's a lot of things that
people a sitting US tax well how much
the parents have to pay how about
driving in a car yes well the scariest
right how about so many things we should
just all sit inside with helmets and
watch YouTube about CrossFit how much
you got to pay you want to do CrossFit
you know well then then we got to
measure the benefit to CrossFit right
you're building up your body you're
gonna live longer well that's positive
and you're also probably hanging out
with lunatics like you who are riding
you know crazy vehicles right so I'm a
kind driver but I think that CrossFit
the benefit yeah is you're getting in
shape so that balances itself out as
long as you do it intelligently you're
involved in athletics but should we
reward people should they pay less so if
someone does yoga three days a week we
supposed to make them pay less I mean I
think you get into some weird swampy
area and people start Juke the system
the same way when you know people got
paid for rats they let rats loose and
then fucking kill them because people
are gross yeah but we're improving again
as a species yeah let's not lose sight
of that it's good news I'm an optimist
yeah yeah 100% glass-is-half-full yeah
yeah have you ever tried to turn other
people into an optimist and then
successful no I don't think I think it's
real hard to turn a battleship yeah I
mean if I've made a incremental push in
the direction I've moved in one or two
degrees to the right over time maybe
it'll change their direction but the
reality is you got to want to change
yourself and sometimes
someone's inspirational words could be
the thing that you needed and that sets
you off on a good path and then you do
make change but for the most part when
someone comes to you and tells you you
have to change
it's really hard for people to accept
just like you were talking about in your
episode on changing your mind right
which I really loved but I'm sure that a
lot of people who've listened to this
podcast or who watch this podcast have
you know drawn in the both the X and
implicit optimism yes for sure but in
China the specific reaction with them
right I haven't havin a specific
interaction where I got them to change
changing because they're hearing me but
they're also probably hearing a million
other people they're hearing David
Goggins and Cameron Haynes and you know
fill in the blank all these different
people that do incredible things and
they go why I gotta fucking do something
with my life I gotta get my shit I gotta
stop drinking soda I got to stop doing
this I got a you know I got a just just
starting healthy taking vitamins maybe
not one workout class a week just one
start with yours also though I guess a
danger I don't mean to be a downer
because I'm an opportunist I'm an
optimist too but the downer the danger
potentially is that and this relates to
suicide so you know suicide is a little
bit of a mystery because it's such a
tragic thing if it affects someone that
you you knew or even you know even
people you don't know it just seems like
such a drastic solution to a problem
that is hard to imagine right but if you
look at suicide rates through history
and around the world there's a lot of
variance but there's one trend that's
pretty strong which is suicide rates
tend to be higher in countries with more
prosperity which would seem nuts right
you would think that if your life is
kind of very very difficult on a kind of
Maslow's hierarchy level right not
enough to eat worried about paying ran
or being safe that you'd be more likely
to be suicidal but it turns out it's
it's generally the opposite not always
and what one suicide ologist deduced
from that or the kind of theory that he
came up with it's he calls it's the no
one left to blame theory of suicide
which is if you live in an environment
where let's say you've got a spouse
that's cruel to you or you've got a
terrible work situation or you live
somewhere where the government is
repressive whatever you can always kind
of see a light at the end of the tunnel
and you can say that you know when that
problem is done my life will get better
but if you live in a society like ours
where you've never had to worry about
having enough to eat you've never gone
too cold or too hot where you're
surrounded by prosperity and you look
around at everybody else and like
they're not depressed and you think what
is it it's me the no one left to blame
theory and that's one argument for why
there's like right now is a lot of teen
and young people suicide in a country
like America where the riches are the
prosperity is boundless
have you read Jonathan hates work yeah
yeah so his take on that is that these
kids are experiencing social media and
they're experiencing this addiction to
the Internet and this cruelty that they
experience the bullying the meanness the
coldness and that when it's targeted on
people and when they're losing their
position in the social chain and they
feel left out they don't have the tools
to cope with this they're developing
minds and this is the reason why you're
experiencing this uptick that's directly
correlated to the invention of the
iPhone and the invention of smartphones
the invention of social media
applications is there's all sorts of
correlations where you see the
inventions of these particular things
that have changed everything and then
you see the uptick particularly with
girls particular girls in suicide and
you see them trying to keep up with the
Joneses and this this feeling that
they're inadequate or the judging
themselves against girls that are you
know supermodels that are photoshopped
and they just feel inadequate I hear you
know that we have to be careful about
correlations proving causation because
it's really tough because I totally hear
you on it it looks like they both travel
together Yeah right on the other hand
history is full of correlations that
looked good you know we were talking
about polio the vaccine earlier polio
for reasons that are still not
understood by the way because they never
really figured out the disease they just
figured out a vaccine they never figured
out what caused the disease but it turns
out that polio would always spike in the
summertime so there were a lot of
theories maybe had to do with being
outdoors so parents would keep their
kids indoors maybe it had something to
do with swimming pools people keep it
out of swimming pools but then there was
one theory that what else
happens in the summertime that doesn't
happen in the wintertime ice cream
consumption so there was a theory for a
while that always caused by ice cream on
paper the correlation looks pretty good
so I'm saying look Internet and
depression and suicide are a little bit
more complicated than ice cream and
polio but it's hard to tease out effects
for sure no you're right but it's also
hard to ignore the effect of social
media on people's self esteems people
are addicted to phones people are
addicted to likes it's a real occurrence
it's also been engineered in order to
attract the most eyeballs and the best
turns out the best ways to get you
outraged I agree but again just to bang
the same drum again and again where
there's agreement with you where there's
costs you got a look at the benefits and
this is what I hate about politicians is
they'll talk about a policy that they
like they ignore the costs they talk
about the opponents policy they ignore
the benefits so with social media for
instance I know a kid a boy who was a
friend of the family who if he were born
thirty years earlier and there were no
way to connect with people other than in
person or phone whatever he would had a
very disconnected life yet he just had
some issues with with doing that with
kind of in person he kind of you know
behavior that's a little bit on the
spectrum just would have been very
difficult as it turns out because of the
digital revolution he was able to build
a community that is unbelievably good
for him
are there downsides to these things
absolutely but you know you got to look
at the benefits oh I do I do and I don't
know I mean we're adapting I think human
beings are adapting to a new normal and
the new normal is constant connection
with all the people around us all the
time if we so choose to engage and leave
our from so choose the problem is when
it becomes more invasive than that right
now it's if we so choose to engage but
if we get to some point we're wearing
something that right for transmit stuff
into our brain or where someone's
wearing us or if you don't if you don't
do it then you can't be a part of this
corporation because we're about
succeeding and this is the best way to
succeed is to connect yourself to the
network to uptick your bandwidth so that
you can keep up with us come on Steve
what's up you know I mean it's team
let's go team you know and then next
thing you know you're wearing the
fucking Hat the headband
are you are you optimistic about the
future in a general way though people
are awesome great time to be alive
I love it I love people how only a lot
of people love people how old do you
want to live - that's a good question
it's not how old I want to live - I
don't want to live 300 years in an agony
and pain right I want to live a healthy
life as long as I can I don't know when
that when you know what a given how old
you are now your health now in the state
of science and technology and medicine
now and where it might be in 20 years
would you like to be 120 and be
interesting if if I was functional all
right if things worked I don't want to
be a prisoner to my shell but I think
that people like Aubrey de Grey where I
had on last week who's fascinating
character he believes were 3 to 5 years
away from a giant breakthrough and that
one that giant breakthrough house this
is my concern the haves and the
have-nots will never be more separate
than ones there's some sort of
innovative technology that allows you to
live forever but it's a thousand dollars
every week or something like that yeah
but history shows us that all
technologies most technologies start out
very expensive read and almost all of
them get really cheap really fast you
know Douglas with that greed with that
biggest wall street phone on the beach
right and digital era even more social
leverage is accelerated so my thing
would be but here's the question would
there be too much of an insurmountable
head start from the people that are used
in that technology or enough right
transitional generation two sets of the
technology okay they have the life
extension technology or the age reversal
technology which is really talking about
and then on top of that they have the
things like what Elon Musk wants to do
with that a neural link yeah or some
more advanced version of it or the next
competing version of it what what if
both of those things are highly
expensive the amount of head start that
a wealthy family would have over a poor
family that just has to go out natural
fair enough but in the in the scheme of
history we're just talking about the
blink of a couple generations with your
transition if you want to be marred and
cruel and just look amber's to me the
alright to me the harder question even
is whether immortality is desirable or
even if like 200 years because you know
there's something about scarcity
that produces euphoria or at least
desire right so I sometimes think that
like every day feels precious because
you know there aren't that many of them
and if I know that there are 300 years
worth yeah I wonder
well that's all scale right 300 years if
that was normal right fine yeah yeah
okay I'm gonna be so wise on the 250 and
then I'm gonna settle down over the last
50 years I mean that's I mean people
could really think like that I'll eat
vegetables only for that one year
between 250 and 250 yeah I I think what
we're used to is a hundred years if
you're lucky that's where we used to
yeah so the idea of 120 is like whoa is
that real he thinks it is and he thinks
that yeah probably looking at people
that one day in the future will live to
be 300 years yeah I do worry I do think
about this so like you know retirement
is a relatively new concept is only for
the last like 80 hundred years and you
used to work yourself pretty much and
then you die and I do find that a lot of
people get lost after they give up the
thing and it's a it's a you know it's an
it's kind of a rich kid problem you know
could be a listen time it's like a
sadness problem people need a task and I
think when people are just waiting
around for death to come knocking on
their door they do get really morose and
they just don't feel good they don't
feel productive so don't deal so one
thing with old people they don't feel
helpful yeah well that's the thing they
say the single best if you're feeling
down generally about yourself the single
best thing they say you could they as
though there's some quorum of they who
all agree on everything but a lot of
people say the single best thing you can
do and this was in our loneliness
episode as well as service helping other
people so do you have you run across
anybody that you've interviewed who you
thought had a great kind of prescription
for how to help other people like doable
sensible you know that if people really
like let's say I say you know I work
hard I try to love the people around me
but I really want to have some kind of
service component but I don't know what
to do good question I think first start
with the people around you right start
telling them you love them hug them
enhance the sense of community that you
share with your friends and your loved
ones
do your best to sort of be the person
who steps forward starts it off
you know like makes an action tell
someone how much you care and
them I care about them and appreciate
them when you maybe wouldn't have done
that
ordinarily you can do that we can all do
that and we've all had it done to us and
it feels amazing when someone comes up
to you out of nowhere and goes hey man I
just want to tell you I really
appreciate you I know I know sometimes
we don't talk to each other that much
but when I do I really enjoy it I just I
love you give me a hug I just want you
to know yeah I'm very fortunate that I
have a lot of friends that do that kind
of stuff I have a real supportive group
of friends and if you don't you long for
that and I think that's a big thing
become that person reach out and try to
try to start that I can't imagine
anybody hearing you say that would
disagree it's like such a obviously good
way to be and yet and yet I find that so
many people kind of go out of their way
to not just be generous cuz they're
scared
there's not scarcity they think that
they have they have to make it and that
if you make it like zero sum they're a
loser yeah it's famine thinking it's
real real real calm our hardware is the
same and our software is not and we can
manipulate our hardware we just have to
understand what the patterns are and
also been there you have to make
mistakes you've been there you feel it
you understand what it is and then you
have that time to adjust
that's why losing in life is so
important whether it's getting dumped
getting fired
losing a game loot loss those feelings
where things didn't work out your way
that's important because it lets you
know this is the bad feeling that comes
when it goes wrong and you improve and
then it makes the good feelings of
victory all the better and I mean that
you know in a relative sense like even
getting good at something forget about
victory like making a terrible book that
gets rejected by every publisher and
then writing a really good one and
people accepting like fuck I got better
yes
like this thing yeah those feelings of
failure are really critical for your
motivation that's interesting I've
always thought of failure like or like
like a yeah failure or just like a bad
event I've always thought that they were
good because I'm like a scaredy cat in
some ways right and then if the very bad
thing happens the very thing you feared
happens right you survived it and then
you learn to shed more fear in more
directions you know what I mean well so
I could look at it that way
look there's a lot of ways you could
look at bad events you can tie a bad
event is just who you are and you just
have bad events and you're a fucking
loser and life hates you and God hates
you and a hook look at that happening to
Mike again can't fucking believe it
there's a lot of guys who go through
life like that and you know they could
say that they seek comfort in lowering
the standards that they expect out of
things so when things go bad and they
say look I fucking knew it
for them alleviate some concern about
what's gonna happen in the future
because the future is always dogshit so
by doing that they've taken away the
fear of exceeding the fear of overcoming
the fear of improving the fear of
getting better as a human being yeah if
you just exhibit the same patterns you
fall into those patterns whether it's
alcoholism or gambling addiction or sex
addiction people fall into those because
they're customed to it it becomes a
normal part of your life I think that's
a scary thing for people to recognize
that they're on a bad pattern and to say
okay I have to stop drinking how do I
dress yes right what what steps do I
make and what's the best way community
yeah they've shown 12-step programs you
get together with some other guy and he
goes look Mike iced drink too much to
where we're just people we can help each
other I'm your sponsor now and they work
together that's and I think those yeah
though that solution is a really good
solution you know I have three brothers
all older I'm the youngest of eight and
I don't mean to disparage them and I
also know you're younger than me but I
kind of wish you'd been my older brother
it would have been really good maybe
I've been sucking up pussy come on man
stop crying yeah that's okay yeah now
that bit of that we're not sure I have a
sister I don't have a brother but you
know having conversations with your
brothers and sisters sometimes they're
the only people that really know you
like I have conversations with my sister
sometimes she's the only person that
really knows our childhood right we'll
talk about what it was like when were
nine righthand and do you have the same
perception of events yeah my sister
super honest right and she's but I mean
you remember you remember yeah yeah yeah
yeah she doesn't distort anything right
we both have real similar recollections
of our past so it's uh but but those
people that have experienced those
things with you they're like the only
ones who really know you deep at your
core and the more things you can
experience with people the more you're
going to share that sort of but them
people that make me sad are the people
with no friends and no confidence they
have no one they could talk to there's
no one that knows their secret said they
have no one that they could tell a
terrible joke to and that you would
never say in mixed company right there
you have no one who you know this
especially comedians we're the world
famous for it we say things to each
other all the time that are the most
horrible things and just to get a rise
out of each other you know like one of
my friends will say something terrible
to me on my back like about me like
horrible shit about me and I just think
it's so funny I'm like do that so that
is what I look like we're so accustomed
to it and there's also in our culture
there's a currency of being able to joke
around like that and of course
physically if somebody makes one of my
friends makes fun of me it's hilarious
it's fun we do it to each other all the
time there's actually like a currency
and be able to take it to like you can
make fun of Andrew he doesn't give a
fuck it's not good you know that's what
people you know I mean you're in the
business and making fun of things if
you're mad at someone makes fun of you
it's not good in our world yeah all
right I got to learn I got a lot to
learn from you I have a list things I'm
gonna look up and watch things I'm gonna
read I think we should all be concerned
about each other sensitivities but we
shouldn't Cano people yeah and that's
the difference between compassion and
just full-on Nerf in the world you know
you can't nerf the world and you and and
when you stop humor like you nerf humor
there's a real problem with that cuz
it's fun it's fun when people talk shit
talking shit is fun it's interesting to
me how comedy is like the last place in
society where you can actually say stuff
yeah come to the comedy store we still
see ya ridiculous shit ya know and it
can't happen in the media it can't
happen in politics yeah that's the art
form though it's like I was talking
about Quentin Tarantino's new movie that
um Once Upon a Time in Hollywood and now
he's sort of grandfathered in because
there's scenes yeah violence in that
movie against women they're like if a
new guy came out of nowhere and he was
didn't have a track record yeah and he
had some woman getting her brains bashed
in on a fireplace yeah why yeah what the
fuck is this but when you go to see a
Tarantino movie you know exactly what
you're getting into you're getting its
mad
that's chaos and we survived you ever
seen porgy and bess
what is that porgy and bess George
Gershwin musical from the 1920s I guess
once upon time in Hollywood no not at
all but it's a couple of white guys
writing about this african-american
community in the like coastal South
Carolina or Georgia and it's this drama
so it was written as a Broadway show and
as an opera - and I saw it at the
Metropolitan ah
I don't go see a lot of opera I saw this
recently and it was very very good it
was incredibly moving even though it was
opera which wouldn't seem to be but it
was so unbelievably against everything
we think about now about how to talk
about race everything against it and yet
it was about 80 actors opera opera
singers and actors on stage all
african-american right so first of all
you have to think it's it's great to be
to have a vehicle for that but written
by these two white guys in if it were to
happen now and I was surprised -
Metropolitan Opera allowed itself to put
on this show because it feels from the
light of day of 2020 way too dated or
racial or whatever and yet what was
really interesting is because it's a
really good piece of art it overcomes
that I think we should be really careful
even with bad pieces of art of shielding
people from the reality of our own
evolution so if you go back and watch
some of the early like there's a Disney
film that Splash Mountain is based on
that you can't even get any more it is
this really racist film about the Splash
Mountain Splash Mountain is a ride at
Disneyland but it's based on a movie
okay based on a movie you can't even get
any more because it's late so Pro kicked
it out of the archive yes yes so
problematic yeah like I think stuff like
that it's important to know where we
came from like I don't know if you've
ever watched some of the old Popeyes I
have yeah from the 1920s and 30s or
whatever it was
Bluto was a fucking rapist all he was
trying to do was rape olive oil
he was always grabbing olive oil and
trying to rape her that was normal I've
been watching Cheers you remember cheer
as you remember cheers but the even
cheers but stop and think but I'm sure
that was but some of those old
black-and-white cartoons were insanely
racist yeah their depictions of Japanese
people their depictions of African
people their depictions of like all the
pop I once fucking crazy your people
need to be allowed to see you should be
able to see evidence of our own
evolution we shouldn't pretend I just
figure this shit out right we shouldn't
pretend we shouldn't pretend and look
the the fucking there's so many things
that were on look the dukes of hazzard
they took away the Confederate flag from
the the roof that generally you
literally can't watch The Dukes of
Hazzard anymore because they pulled it
off television because people were so
offended by that flag right look I'm not
saying I'm not promoting the Confederate
flag yeah I've got a Lynyrd Skynyrd
poster I saw this when he stole my
stolen yeah
Rolling Stones got second bill how did
that happen his Larry Skinner was a shit
back then son and the top of it in one
there on stage there was a confederate
flag right in the background of the
image of them on stage and that was rank
look I'm not a proponent or a supporter
of the Confederate flag or that
Confederate anything but that is a part
of history and I think whitewashing it I
think pretending that it didn't exist
eliminating it from the historical
record of who we were in 1980 yeah who
we were in 1930 that's not good it's
good to see what it was like Little
Rascals are gang right some of those
things were ridiculous what they were
was an example of the way culture and
art viewed those times
now what about what's what about the
argument and say well for the people who
belong to the group that's being
discriminated against is just too
painful that's a good argument but I
think that we should recognize that
these people were wrong but they existed
right don't hide it don't make it
impossible to get to because then you're
gonna make it forbidden if you make it
forbidden gonna make it attractive right
you know if nobody give a fuck about
swastikas no one we care right you have
them up everywhere I'm not promoting a
swastika but it's the the fact that if
you have a swastika tattoo it's so awful
that makes morons want to get one yeah
because it makes them want to spark up
the taboo right you know there's there's
a thing that people do when you take
stuff away you know where you make it
look you're deciding right that they
can't see this anymore why
you shouldn't want to watch it but why
the fuck is Hogan's Heroes okay
it's a goddamn sitcom about Nazis and a
concentration camp and these guys were
prisoners of war it's ridiculous and
they're joking around with these fucking
baby murderers
you know that's it's a crazy concept for
a show that you never could do today I'd
love to see you pitch that to a studio
here that I can see rosengrant
writing a new version of who knows
mm-hmm yeah there's certain things you
can't pitch in him great and I don't
think you should do a new version of
Hogan's Heroes but I don't think you
should make the old one a banned product
either
I understand historical record of our
evolution is yeah good work I like that
lens of looking at it there's also the
idea of how the line between what's your
Pug meant and not shifts yeah and then
once you get past it how much access do
you want to when it you know yes so just
imagine if you had a cartoon today where
the main character is constantly
fighting off the co-main character
trying to rape his wife yeah that's what
Bluto and Popeye were I don't think you
could sell that in the room and violence
they're always solving it with violence
stay away from me girl she's my girl and
then they're duking it out and there's
cartoon exaggerated violence at every
turn every episode his biceps are firing
up and he's punching the shit out of
somebody but it's a sign of the times
people that back then lived a hard hard
life and that was what they didn't want
some bullshit ass fucking modern-day
Disney movie to calm them down that
wouldn't work right if you put tried to
put one of them modern Disney movies
like the Lions King try to put that shit
on in 1920 they'd be like what are you
talking about hard to say we don't know
the counterfactual I mean you know the
art that's produced as it part of its
time if you import an art from a
different time okay interesting to see
yeah I mean look you can make the
argument in Reverse what happens if you
take a bunch of aggressive violent
people now and play for them classical
music does it work I mean the evidence
seems this show that not really so well
it's way more complicated than that you
take someone who's our life's already
gone so fucking sideways that they're
violent and they're reaching out
smashing people and getting arrested and
they've got problems you're not gonna
fix with Beethoven yeah
although Beethoven can go a long way you
know a little bit I might make him angry
you know it might lead to the no one
left to blame theory I can't stand I
love how you pick apart everything
though that's one of the things that I
really enjoy about your show you look at
every single potential angle and today
in this side in this society there's
there's certain subjects that people
don't like to do that with because it it
it interferes with the orthodoxy
interferes with this accepted upon nere
narration of reality that we are for
whatever reason or another are stuck
with I think we're stuck with it I think
a lot of people have shortcuts because
life is busy and complicated and if
somebody's done the thinking for you
yes and it seems okay on the surface
like I touch it and it's not too hot not
too cold then I'm gonna go with it and
the fact is thinking for yourself and
ferreting out the information finding
the data and then finding conflicting
data and trying to measure one against
the other
takes forever it's right look we barely
we put out one podcast a week and it
almost kills us just to do one a week
because there's a ton of like I think of
it as you know I mentioned I grew up in
the country we used to make maple syrup
and you would have all these maple trees
you drive the tractor around banging in
the taps put the buckets and you'd empty
them out into the big vat and then you'd
boil it down and you get this much maple
syrup and it was very frustrating
because it goes damn it's good it's
really good but the ROI like it took a
lot of effort a lot of time you think it
and so the fact is is that that's what I
do for a living and I enjoy I wouldn't I
wouldn't trade it for anything but I
totally get why people reach for the
fastest piece of conventional wisdom
we're seeing it with coronavirus there's
just so much so I'm very thankful that
there's someone like you who's not doing
that I'm can I tell you I'm thankful
that there's a market for it yeah
because that's not an easy that's and
there's no guarantee it would have never
been the market if it wasn't for the
internet because if you had to go
through a network and do what you're
doing
100% I had a I had a trick kind of
fooled my way into getting so when I
started the the podcast I also wanted to
have a radio component um but I knew
that if I went to like NPR or somebody
like that Sirius whatever and said
listen I want I want to make a radio
show that's basically you know inspired
by the freakonomics way of thinking and
we're basically going to interview a
bunch of scientists and academics and
more you know philosophers and we're
gonna try to wrestle with these big
pieces of life and and there'd be no way
that any executive would go for that so
thank God for technology it had made it
so cheap to make a podcast on my own
that I just did it put it out there and
then I could go to these partners which
happen to be WNYC in American public
media and they said oh okay that works
there was already an audience for it so
that's another case where if you people
are able to use a technology that's in
front of them and marry their ideas to
it you know then but it's also but I I
agree with you but it's also like what
you were talking about before where
there's so many ideas that like it's so
much easier to let someone do the
thinking for you right it's so much
easier to just fall into place so the
vast majority people do that but there's
so many of us there's so many always
gonna be a market so even if the vast
majority people might slot into a
previously grooved little opening and
and fit their thoughts to fit that
little space yeah there's plenty of
people that don't want to do that and
great a beautiful thing about your reach
is you're getting a pure sample of
people who enjoy what you're thinking
because there's no reason to listen if
you don't enjoy it yeah it's true and
look I am very again just appreciative
of being in a world where there's people
who are willing and able to have ideas
that are prima facia unpopular like my
co-author Steve Levitt when he wrote
this paper it's gosh more than 20 years
ago now I think about abortion and crime
man there are all kinds of ways in which
you could talk yourself out of even
thinking about that much less writing a
paper right so it takes courage but if
you look through history if you look at
the people who've really changed the
world they have courage yeah there's a
really really controversial subjects
that are of
uncomfortable fact of our reality and
some some uncomfortable facts people
would be happier with you if you left
them alone yeah yeah but you know the
world doesn't progress very much unless
there's a guy like Steve Jobs or a
Copernicus or whatever you know sticking
the needles to poking people in the eye
with a stick and they you know very
often they're discredited or hated for
their whole lives I love the stories
where someone like gets pushed out and
then finally toward the end they're
they're appreciated for what they did
there was a geologist in England named
William Smith who kind of invented
modern geology but he was not of the the
gentrified class and so his work was
kind of stolen this is an amazing story
told in a book called the map that
changed the world by a Simon Winchester
mm-hm and basically his ideas and his
research were kind of hijacked he was
discredited he ended up getting thrown
in debtors prison it's a class it's like
a horrible story but then at the end of
his life he was able to persuade people
that he had actually done this work and
he was lauded at the very end but like
many much more often you'll find the
stories of the people who just get like
stomped on for their ideas and don't get
the credit but you look at the people
who've died in disgrace who've had
world-changing ideas it's you know
artists look at all the artists who were
like not at all popular in their time
and only now do we appreciate so you
know got to take the long view I agree I
just have just happy that you do it I'm
just happy that you're out there and
that your podcast really does explore
things in every nuanced corner and
really objectively and honestly and I
think it's it's a powerful thing
appreciated favorites hey thanks for
having me hey thanks for being here man
it was awesome we did 2 hours and 45
minutes I believe that I really really
enjoyed that conversation I thought it
was a lot of fun thank you so much thank
you thank you very much and where can
tell people everything where social
media is easy free yeah we're on social
media just Freakonomics if as long as
you spell it right it's freak fre AKO na
max n om ICS but you know the main thing
is the pockets we're also starting a
little
caste channel with some new shows that
are kind of related so we're doing that
in the next year this is our tenth year
for economics radio we might do it
another 10 he's going yeah thanks I'm
home babe pretty good appreciate it
thank you so much
[Applause]
[Music]